did Ken Norton have family ?
Did Giannina Braschi have any more works than those 3 ?
How was the success of The Cardigans first popular song ?
What did Sam Houston do to avoid war ?
What year was the BALCO scandal ?
Where did The Cardigans perform their concert tours ?
Who were George Steiner parents ?
How long did the injury keep Henrik Larsson out ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was Melungeon origin ?
What did Tom Wolfe do after those essays
What is the relation between George and Sunshine showdown ?
Did 3 Doors Down have any hits ?
What is Fallen Empires ?
how did Vaslav Nijinsky career start ?
Did Lea Salonga have siblings ?
Who did Sean Waltman wrestle after that win ?
Did William Styron have a good childhood ?
Where was Stephen F. Austin born ?
How long was Henrik Larsson contract extended ?
Whose commitment ?
did Vaslav Nijinsky dance with anybody famous ?
what can you tell me about the bike
did Walt Disney recieve any honors after his death ?
Was the album well - received ?
what other song
How did the band form ?
Did Sachin Tendulkar win any awards ?
Did Greg Gutfeld offend Canadians ?
did Red Schoendienst amass any other statistics ?
Why did 14th Dalai Lama flee
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Who did Albert Sidney Johnston serve with ?
in what year did the cubs beat the Giants ?
Was Weeb Ewbank honored for his career ?
What is an interesting fact about Adam Lambert image ?
What High School did the band leader graduated from ?
Was J. R. Jayewardene a good student ?
How does Season 1 start off ?
who were Jason Giambi clients ?
what happened in 1977 ?
who was the original drummer ?
What year did Slayer do the music video ?
What was the first match Ted DiBiase had back with MSW ?
Was Bipasha Basu in any other movies ?
What is notable about Payton 's playing style ?
What dark sides did Cross Road Blues have ?
Did Marat Safin prevent him from playing ?
What is Venom ?
What happen in 2014 ?
What did Ted DiBiase do when he appeared backstage ?
What classified Melungeon origin ?
Were Chuck Schuldiner performing live at that time ?
What was Mandaeism relationship with Cosmology ?
what other elements of sexuality were described ?
Did Forest Evashevski do well playing at U of M ?
What other concerts did Biffy Clyro do ?
What is On the Sunday of Life ?
what movies were performed in ?
what came of Andrew Sullivan ?
What did this mean
When did Bill W. get married ?
What other terms were used ?
Where did Wu - Tang Clan name come from ?
What year was Irving Thalberg hired in this role ?
Was William Goebel a close race ?
What was the course of Carl Wilson death ?
Why did Allen leave the SuperSonics ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What team was Kevin with ?
Is Kohli endorsed by anyone or any company ?
Did Patrick O'Brian win any literary prizes ?
why did Kit Carson run away ?
Where were the abbey road rehearsals ?
Where did Neil Diamond grow up
Did Jack White plead guilty to the charge ?
When did Ken Norton first fight Ali ?
Did Mick Fleetwood do well in sales ?
Was there any controversy ?
Did James May actually drive the motorcycle ?
What year did this begin ?
is there any other interesting aspects to this article ?
What was Albert Ayler style of music ?
Where did Donnie Iris go on to perform after that ?
What were Tom Wolfe about
What connection does Ballmer and Google have ?
Where did Bill W. work ?
Did Bobby Darin graduate ?
what was wrong with the style
When did Thor Heyerdahl go ?
Why was Chamberlin known for this
Did the singles do well on the charts ?
what else happened to Janis Joplin as a child
Did Chuck Schuldiner release another album after that ?
What was some political activities that Robert Dale Owen partook in ?
Where was Gonzalez born ?
What states did Melungeon originate in ?
When did Eugene O'Neill die
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was Wallis Simpson marriage happy ?
When did Jason Kidd start playing for the Suns ?
What were some of Chris 's other shots like ?
When did INXS release their first album ?
What was the response to the challenge ?
Was Namdev reliability in question ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
How long did the comic series last ?
Did Rahul Bose perform in any other country besides India ?
Where did Zheng He grow up ?
How many characters has Neil Simon created ?
Did the band tour for the album ?
did Faith Hill have kids ?
what was the album about ?
Did Colin have any comments about Chris ?
Did Yoko Ono have any siblings ?
What else was John Witherspoon role in the Revolutionary War ?
When was the group formed ?
What was Adam Lambert critique ?
Was Tom Coburn a doctor ?
Except what happened ?
What other significant things have happened to Kennedy in Myles Kennedy solo career
Any other interesting information ?
Were there any other members ?
what type of lawyer was Robert F. Kennedy ?
Did Cold have any singles
Did Gabriel Batistuta reside in any other countries ?
Who did the invite
Where did Chesley Sullenberger live when he was appointed ?
Who opposed Linus Pauling works ?
When did Ruhollah Khomeini return to Ruhollah
What was the globe sessions ?
Did Adolf Hitler live anywhere else during his childhood ?
What were some of the song titles ?
What happened in the early part of the band ?
At what age did Toussaint start playing music ?
why did All About Eve regret the generosity ?
what happened after that
What were Terry Gilliam philosophical views ?
Have any other stunt actors emerged in Jayan absence ?
Has the band released Day26 third album ?
Who was the first member to join Corgan ?
when did Mae West begin her recording career ?
What did Phil Lesh do after school ?
Was Rosalind Franklin IQ ever tested ?
What Role did Audra play at Lady Day ?
What happened in the third round of the match ?
Did the band experience success at first ?
Are there any other interesting facts in the article ?
Did the family sue anyone else ?
When was Rocky Graziano next match ?
When Cove became lead singer was Saosin accepted by everyone in the band ?
What did people say about the newfound category ?
how many copies did the other two sell ?
What happened in 1990 ?
Who won ?
Who else was involved in the album 's production ?
Did The Dubliners release a famous album ?
What happened during the 1991 - 1995 Second World Series title ?
Which location(s ) was Shakespeare in Love filmed ?
what was Vinnie Paz third studio album released ?
Did Spice Girls have a huge following ?
So Grigory Potemkin was a ladies ' man ?
Where did Gaelic Ireland move to
Was Anya Jenkins a popular character ?
What city is that in india
What was Rosalind Franklin dream job ?
Did William Dampier encounter pirates ?
What resulted from these discoveries ?
did anybody report on the scandal ?
What other important things did William H. Seward do ?
What was the first band that Jakko Jakszyk joined ?
Did 3 Doors Down win any awards ?
Was the album successful ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was Jack 's eccentricity ?
Did Adolf Hitler have any siblings ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what was Steve Yzerman best season
What sort of acclaim did Talking Heads receive during their success ?
Did Tori Amos go on tour in 2010 ?
Who did Kurt Angle win against ?
Where was Georgia O'Keeffe before she went to New Mexico ?
what year did Stan Laurel sign ?
Did Steve Ballmer say any other angry words to him ?
What did Thomas A. Hendricks stand for ?
What were The Cardigans record sales like ?
why did nt Tallulah Bankhead get that role ?
When did Trey Songz tour for the album ?
Where did Sam Harris grow up ?
How did Autechre do on the charts ?
What criticism surrounded Alejandro and the making of El Topo ?
what was James May greatest accomplishment ?
how was Lull EP received ?
Is there any other euqipment that Carlos Santana uses ?
Did Lorde go on tour in 2009 ?
Did the soviet leader ever come to America ?
How old was Hell when Richard Hell started playing music ?
What was the marriage about
Does Hamid Karzai have any siblings ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
WHat else was significant about Kurt Gödel childhood ?
What is Chapter V ?
Can you tell me something important about Carl Jung childhood memories ?
Where did Albert Sidney Johnston have these units ?
what happened when Umar disobeyed ?
Did Prince Bernhard of Lippe - Biesterfeld have any military experience ?
what did Edward Canby do in the military ?
how did Lea Salonga do in that show ?
What is the name of the Fictional character biography
What do the others say
What did Georgia do work on while in New Mexico ?
Was Patsy ever married ?
What was the outcome to the lawsuit ?
When was Rosalind Franklin born ?
when was Tony Parker divorce finalized ?
How long did Irving Thalberg keep this position ?
did the cubs ever win the championship under THeo ?
How did the protests go ?
where did Randy Moss move to ?
Was there anyone else of note involved ?
When did the band break - up ?
What was critical reception about
What happened next ?
did Billy Joel win any awards ?
was Shakespeare in Love successful ?
where was Andrew Sullivan born ?
Who did quik work with ?
Is religion a big part of Kareem Abdul - Jabbar life ?
Did Gabriel Batistuta play for any other countries besides Argentina ?
Did Stephen Sondheim collaborate in other projects ?
Where did Burlesque do some of the early shows after development ?
When was Return to Forever released ?
Why did Ed McMahon fall upon McMahons shoulders ?
Was the trip a success ?
Where did Walker first go to school ?
How long did David McCullough live in Pittsburgh ?
What other teams did Cathy Rush coach ?
What did Friedrich Hölderlin do in his career ?
Did Foreigner first album have any hits ?
Is Porcupine Tree collectable ?
recruited for what ?
Who was Gypsy staring
What is a single that The Smashing Pumpkins released ?
Where did the idea come from ?
Did Ben Hecht ever receive any awards for any of his columns ?
What did Rosalind Franklin want to do as a child ?
Did Saosin play any shows ?
Was Florence Nightingale well received by the public ?
what is professional
Was this a popular show ?
What were Kitty Pryde mutant powers
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
How long did MC Hammer stay with them ?
Did Miles Dempsey recieve any awards for this accomplishment
When was the bands first tour ?
were there any singles ?
was the album successful ?
How long did folk revival last ?
What was puzzle ?
Anything else interesting ?
where did Walter Scott go to school ?
Where did Bruce Hornsby go to school ?
When did Max Martin work with Cheiron ?
What did Adolf Hitler parents do ?
What mad Forest Evashevski choose Iowa ?
What was Kelly Clarkson number 1 hit ?
What else was different about Albert Ayler artistry ?
is that where Walt Disney kept his awards and such ?
Who were Neil Diamond parents
How long did Sam Harris stay in India and Nepal ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did p.g Wodehouse do in Hollywood ?
did Cary Grant have any leading ladies
what did the pixies have to do with kim ?
Did Mary Chapin Carpenter attend college ?
how did Kelly Clarkson rank on the billboards ?
What was the name of an album ?
what are elements of canibalism ?
How long did Ramzan Kadyrov serve as Deputy Prime Minister ?
When did Big Brother and the Holding Company first album debut ?
what made Forest Evashevski a good coach ?
Where did Bruce Hornsby perform ?
Who was Andy Griffith father ?
what was the book about
What else was arounf the manor
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was the kinks legacy ?
Any chart toppers ?
when was Walter Hagen born ?
Did David Davis stay in any form of politics after this ?
What significance did martial arts have in Steven Seagal life ?
what music did Billie Holiday produce ?
Could you tell me if there is any interesting information on the article please ?
what did Faith Hill do after the audition failed ?
When did Vlade Divac play on the national team ?
Did Richard Nixon travel to the Soviet Union ?
any other shows ?
did the band have any other member ?
Was there any controversy during this time ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where was Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music when he conceived of the album ?
Did this replacement work well ?
What did Lew Wallace write in the paper ?
Did Robert Dale Owen have any take in any other political movements ?
did Cancer Bats go on tour ?
why did Stuart Pearce relinquish them ?
Who did Robert F. Kennedy run against in the senate ?
Who was Mirage Comics ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did Oklahoma ! win any awards ?
When was End Hits released ?
when did that release ?
was the tour sucessful ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
when was Judith Butler born ?
How many sales have there been for The Hunting Party ?
Anything else you found interesting ?
Where did Bear Bryant retire from ?
Did Dana Rohrabacher have any opposition ?
Was there anything else significant ?
did Jack Thompson get into trouble because of the dispute ?
Who else joined the band ?
When did Marching band typically perform ?
What was another country that " Nemo " reached the charts in ?
Was Ben Stein guilty of this ?
Who was in the group Bananarama ?
How did King Crimson work with improvisations ?
Where was Joshua Chamberlain moved to
What did Lea Salonga do after that ?
Did Tippi Hedren work for Hitchcock after this
What did Eugene O'Neill do career wise
Did Rex Harrison act in any other films ?
What was Johns earliest work ?
Where did J. R. Jayewardene attend early school ?
Where did Dali go to school ?
When was Exai released ?
Did someone leave the band over the recording ?
what was Dorothy Day biggest accomplishment ?
What is traditional style marching
Did Jason Giambi use steroids ?
Did Rocky Graziano win the first tournament his friends told him about ?
Was William Henry Dietz allowed to stay in the Oklahoma Chilocco Indian Agricultural School ?
what was Sheryl Crow live album ?
Did David Simon get a screen adaption ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Nina Simone win any awards or have a top album ?
Did Earl have to leave due to World War I ?
What did Christie do about pensions
What did Weeb Ewbank do in retirement ?
Did Infinity do well ?
Why did Slipknot take this hiatus ?
Did Martina Hingis win the championship at Wimbledon ?
Was there any other characters in Act II ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where there any albums released between Colors and The Great Misdirect ?
What was special about the USS Vincebnnes
Who is the most known female DJ ?
When did Wallis Simpson marry ?
what did Gus Van Sant do with universal ?
What did Norman Borlaug critics say ?
What led to Page changing Patti Page musical style in the 60s ?
Who did Marilyn Chambers appear in films with ?
When did David McCullough graduate ?
Did the band tour for Underworld ?
Where did Laurence Olivier attend school ?
What got Ludwig Mies van der Rohe interested in architecture ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What is something about Ablett Sr . 's legacy ?
What was the name of INXS first album ?
did Tracey Ullman win other awards ?
What happened after the rehearsal ?
who were Walter Hagen parents ?
When did Lea Salonga get her start in theater ?
Was Leno optimistic about the show when others were not ?
what did carrere do ?
What happened as a result of Umar refusing to follow under him ?
How did Weeb Ewbank feel about retirement ?
how many people are in the band
Where were the gates ?
How long did Audra McDonald play this part ?
What is Red letter days ?
any interesting information of this period ?
And what else ?
What was Greg LeMond childhood like ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what did these movies have to do with Skinny Puppy ?
What can you tell me about how Ted DiBiase contributed to the National Wrestling Alliance ?
How did William H. Seward make sure they did n't interfere ?
What did Nina Simone set to do after her last album in 1974 ?
Is there anything else important ?
Why did Mick Fleetwood stop playing ?
What is creationism ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what did Billie Holiday record ?
What was Lea Salonga childhood like ?
Did other band members do anything ?
What wars were the Powhatan involved in ?
did Gypsy win any awards
How do people react to Jack White eccentricities ?
What type of films did Marilyn Chambers appear in ?
When did Kadyrov become Deputy Prime Minister ?
What happened after this ?
Did the album do well ?
When did Sam Cooke first start doing music ?
How did Marin Čilić do ?
did Frank Zappa release any albums or singles together ?
Who was the leading cast member ?
When did this get recorded ?
Tell me about the second circumnavigation ?
Was John Cleese successful ?
What happened when Carl Jung was pushed to the ground ?
What was the injury ?
Who was Rosalie ?
what was Eddie Rabbitt first hit
How well did the critics receive Giannina Braschi ?
What was Pinhead 's weaknesses ?
Why were Greg Gutfeld upset by this ?
Which language was typically spoken ?
What year was that released ?
What year was that ?
Where was Screeching Weasel born ?
Was that Jane Jacobs first job in NYC ?
what other films did Tracey Ullman do work for ?
Can you tell me a little about the West Side Story ?
Was there any controversies ?
Why was there confusion ?
What was David Hume mother 's name ?
Who was Hume 's father ?
what other honor did disney get or have
What did Andy Griffith study in college ?
Who owened this
What else is significant about Walter Payton style ?
did Kurt Warner have any other stats
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Wallace receive any other doctorates ?
How did the album do in the charts ?
was Kurt Angle a good manager ?
when did Theo join the Cubs ?
Why did Fred Hampton take over a decade ?
What were Hole early songs ?
Did The Darkness record an album ?
What happened during the tour of Australia ?
Where did the band first perform ?
Why did Matthew Paris feel that way ?
Did Talking Heads perform together after the hiatus ?
What studio work did Jakko Jakszyk concentrate on ?
Where did Henrik Larsson go when the contract ended in July ?
what was there legacy ?
Do Indigenous languages of the Americas practice some languages more than others ?
what was outside
Did the band toured ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What teams did Ara Parseghian play that season ?
did Roger Clemens win any awards during his playing career ?
What does Benjamin Lee Whorf say about how we speak of the world
How did " No Way Out " do ?
What happened in 2012 ?
What was folk revival ?
Where there any others ?
How old was Richard Burtonw hen Richard Francis Burton went on his first exploration ?
Did Brian Wilson have other successes ?
What awards and nominations did O - Town receive ?
What was the band most famous song ?
Did Florence Nightingale receive any awards ?
Who was Pierre ?
When was the Dalai lama 's uprising
why did Lee Trevino decide to go again
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did William Bartram encounter any Cherokee people ?
Did Sun Ra get any recognition ?
What kind of materials did Thomas Eakins use ?
What is the black panther party
What was Robert 's role with the band ?
Did Beck say any of the 20 songs ?
did Duncan Hunter win the 42 district ?
What team did Ablett Sr . play for ?
What else did Mike Gravel do in alaska
What is the Ruthless Roundtable ?
what is one of the institutions
Did Paul DeMarco replace somebody ?
did Janis Joplin have any romances
What else can you tell me about Eleanor of Aquitaine inheritance ?
Did Harry Nilsson release any more albums ?
Can you tell me about some of those other television appearances ?
Is the vocal coach still working with Lorde ?
What was The Oak Ridge Boys group called ?
Were there any hit singles ?
Was this album popular ?
What sport did Kurt Warner play
How long did Elbridge Gerry hold office ?
What was Wallis ' relationship with Edward ?
Did Eagles win any awards ?
What was in Jefferson 's biography ?
What was the result of this ?
Did Patsy Mink have any children ?
Did an injury end Marat Safin career ?
What was Jason Kidd best season ?
How did the team play under Forest Evashevski leadership ?
when did Reggie Jackson switch to baseball
What artists were involved in this production ?
Did Blake Lewis release any singles ?
Why did Frank Zappa break up ?
What did Carl Jung do for him to believe that ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where were some of Edward Canby assignments ?
Who was the first person George Foreman fought when he came back ?
What are the correspondent segments ?
What was Kohli 's batting average ?
Why did Human Torch spire into alcholism ?
did Harold Shipman do anything to prevent him from trying ?
Were there any singles released from King Crimson ?
what was important about the selection process
What did Chamberlains men do
What was the economy like
Where was Mary Chapin Carpenter born ?
did Vaslav Nijinsky ever get married ?
Did Yes have any other tours ?
Was this album popular ?
What year did Teenage Mutant Turtles some out ?
Who was Larry Holmes manager at the time ?
What else did the troops do
Did James May put any other toys to the test ?
What happened in 2005 ?
what is the most important fact in this article
What was Spacemen 3 style ?
Who were Scooter Libby parents ?
When was Venom released ?
What else did William Bartram find ?
How old was Emily Dickinson when she started to write ?
did Eddie Rabbitt have any accomplishments
why did Frank Zappa think the band lacked effort ?
Had the band recorded any albums ?
What is notable about Adam Lambert image ?
Did the team do well ?
When did Pankaj Advani start playing Snooker ?
what was Andy Dick biggest role ?
Where did Stephen F. Austin go to school ?
Who was present at Carl Wilson burial ?
What explanation did the paper talk about ?
What else happened after winning Kirby Puckett respective home games ?
Did Tyson Chandler win any of the games for the team ?
Was any of this songs a hit ?
What are some other very important aspects that takes place in Season 1 ?
Does Neil Simon have any bad characters ?
How many series did April O'Neil make ?
Did Norton win ?
Was Edward Canby in the Army ?
Can you name any of Karlheinz Stockhausen children ?
did Florence Nightingale ever receive backlash
What else did you find interesting ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what other countries did Queen Rania of Jordan go to ?
What was Grace Hopper biggest contribution post - retirement ?
Were there any other bands involved ?
What were the categories
did Randy Moss win ?
Is there any other note worthy information in the article about The Hunting Party ?
What did Mike Gravel do in alaska
what was another success ?
Did alcohol affect Bill W. marriage ?
What sort of religious history does Turkana have ?
What was the band 's first album released ?
What happen after returning
was Billy Joel successful ?
What happened after no leads were produced ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Is there anything else interesting I should know ?
Did Juan González win any awards ?
Where was David Hume born ?
Why did Mike move to Alaska ?
what were some of the singles on the album ?
What else does Tom Morello use in practice ?
What makes up the style ?
Did Portugal . The Man tour ?
What was Bobby Darin major ?
What is interesting about Assange 's personal life ?
What did Scooter Libby study ?
What happened to the show when Nina Tucker left ?
Were there any other matches of note ?
what was similar between the two ?
was angle fired ?
Was Cary Grant famous for anything other than acting
What musical contexts ?
Following what release was that ?
What was Kurt Gödel home life like ?
what happened in 1985
When did Brooks & Dunn embark on their solo careers ?
What is the name of Patrick O'Brian wife
Where did this start
How long was Chesley Sullenberger involved in military services ?
Did Jayan leave behind any family ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What else do you know about Eugene O'Neill wife
What did Sun Ra study there ?
did Graeme Obree set a record with this bike
What was Eazy - E Ruthless Records investment about ?
Who was Zwick ?
Where did Kareem Abdul - Jabbar get his name from ?
what were some of these toys ?
Was Albert Sidney Johnston successful at this ?
what were Jason Giambi stats during this time period
Was Irving Thalberg successful running the LA studio ?
What was Wallace 's work on zoogeography ?
When did Patrick O'Brian first publish his novel ?
What happened after that ?
What year did Eagles decide to get back together ?
was Kurt Warner ever injured ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Skunk Anansie release any albums during their early career ?
What happen in 1930
What made Colter return to music ?
Who were some of the musicians that Corea played with during this time ?
Does Kermit the Frog have any siblings ?
What year did Ruhollah Khomeini do that
How many copies did Bullet for My Valentine sell ?
What were The Kinks best known for ?
Did Ben Hecht do anything else in Chicago ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What were the critics reactions ?
Did The Master become popular after that ?
Why did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela go to prison ?
Were The Kinks ever criticized ?
Is there any other political movement that Dana Rohrabacher was involved in ?
What legal punishments did Willie Nelson face ?
Who were the band members ?
What else followed or happened after ?
Where did Tyson Chandler grow up ?
What achievements did Paul Bowles have ?
Did Puzzle hit number 1 ?
When did Glavine sign with the Atlanta Braves ?
How long does a routine typically last ?
Did Mike Gravel meet anyone up there ?
What happened to these men
What other music related things was Donnie Iris involved with early on ?
Is Ben Stein well liked ?
What happened to Digger ?
Did the people forgive David Vitter for hiring sex workers ?
How was Sam Houston accepted by the Texans ?
and what else is moral ?
Did Leontyne Price get an award ?
Did Richard Lewontin publish any more of his research ?
What was Zheng He first job ?
Where was Kurt Gödel born ?
What was the format of this work , was Giannina Braschi also experimental ?
What was the title of P. G. Wodehouse novel
Were Sun Ra not disciplined ?
Did Chesley Sullenberger accomplish anything else while in the Military ?
What kind of health problems did Gregg Allman have ?
what were these elements ?
Did Marin Čilić win any medals or titles ?
Are End Hits and The Argument names of albums ?
Best known songs ?
Was anything unusual about John Cage ?
Was this a champion game ?
Did Patrick Dempsey act in any other films ?
What year was this developed ?
what is temps adept floridum ?
Where was the 10 year anniversary experience concert held ?
What was the leadership contest ?
What was Guilty All the Same ranked in the charts ?
Did Andrew Johnson move from Carthage to Tennessee ?
What was Eleanor of Aquitaine inheritance ?
Did The Kinks have any albums ?
What did the resolution call on
Did Terry Bradshaw pursue a television career after football ?
Where was Harry Wright born ?
Is Let Love in an Album ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where was is going to be ?
What was the public 's reaction ?
How did Bonnie Raitt album do in sales ?
Did Suzanne Lenglen take time away from the game ?
When did Amos release a live album ?
What else did Eugene O'Neill do in the years
What was Cibona ?
Did Rogers Morton have siblings ?
Who did Juan González play for when he came back ?
WHich studio deventually produced the film ?
Where was Nina Simone a student between those years ?
Why did Ted DiBiase ultimately return to MSW ?
What were the pilots called ?
What is a song from the album ?
When was that performance ?
Where there any hits from this album ?
Did Y. A. Tittle receive any recognition for his play style ?
where in Asia did A - Teens go ?
Where was Daniel Barenboim from ?
Were there other artworks with melting watches ?
Was Audra McDonald recognized for this role ?
Where did Sam Harris go to school ?
was this song popular ?
What was Emergence ?
Can you tell me how many points that Kirby Puckett got ?
What percent did Roger Clemens get ?
Are there any other interesting aspects of this article ?
How long did Shilton play for England ?
What were the recordings ?
What did Muhammad Ali do ?
When did Harry Wright retire ?
What were some elements of these shows ?
Was Ben Stein shammed for this ?
Where did Scooter Libby go to high school ?
How many games did Ozzie Smith win ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Ballmer do next in Steve Ballmer life ?
What happened to the colonies
Did any of the other members go solo ?
How did King Crimson improvise together ?
What came of the argument ?
what were the legal battles ?
What position did Maurice Malpas play ?
What happened after Journey was fired ?
did Randy Moss ever serve the remaining ?
Was King Crimson a successful recording ?
When did Chesley Sullenberger become a member of an aircraft accident investigation ?
Did Billie Jean King play at Wimbledon or any other well known events during these years ?
Did Juan González help coach any youth sports ?
did The Buggles work out the issue ?
Are there any more important dates in the article ?
What was Kitty Pryde able to do with the powers
Was Ben Hecht a good correspondent ?
After Ted DiBiase win what other matches did he participate in ?
what was the turnstiles ?
Did the film do well ?
HOw did Rocky Graziano get started in his carreer ?
Did Ali Khamenei hold any political office ?
Did the musical win any more awards ?
Did Ozzie Smith have any home runs ?
what were the highlights of adventures in modern recording ?
What did this
What made Orlando Jones want to return ?
What is the legacy of Harry ?
Was Blake Lewis a hit ?
What year did Harry Wright start playing baseball ?
Where did Weeb Ewbank go once he retired ?
any hits during this time ?
who are some of the characters ?
Were the French people into Multiculturalism ?
Are there any songs that Carlos Santana uses his amplifiers on ?
Did Gregg Allman record any albums ?
What else seems very interesting to you ?
Did Lake have children ?
What did Henrik Larsson do after they won the League final ?
Did Nitty Gritty Dirt Band release any albums during this time period
When did produce Namdev works ?
What happens during this temporary rift with Blair and Nate ?
anything about the lighting ?
Who were the founding members ?
Did you find anything else interesting ?
Where did Reggie Jackson go to college
what was the play ?
How did David Vitter affect his career ?
Did Donnie Iris and the Cruisers win any awards ?
what did John Wayne do after his last film ?
Has Bose been in any films ?
What happened with the libraries ?
Were there other ways Pinhead liked attacking ?
What happened to the band
What did Julian Assange do after college , why did nt he get the degree ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was anyone badly injured ?
What is a single from that album ?
What was special about this film that Jacques Cousteau won an award ?
Why was Fred Hampton given his own day ?
What was underworld ?
When was the marriage consummated ?
Who did William Goebel run against ?
What was the result of this narrow focus on intellectuals ?
What was Ozzie Smith position ?
Did Patti Page have any notable , non - musical life events during this time period ?
What happened next ?
Where was Rosalind Franklin born ?
Did Travis win any awards ?
Any thing else notable about Bob Newhart style ?
Who was this about
What is The New World Order ?
Was the band popular during this time
anything else ?
What kind of items
Who did Lenglen work with ?
Was Miracle on Ice in the Soviet union ?
what happened in 1982 ?
What makes The Master brilliant ?
How did Evan Lysacek do in the 2005 - 2006 season ?
What happened with Josef Mengele ?
how many children ?
What other pen names did Patrick O'Brian use ?
What are the criteria that makes one eligible for the veterans commitee
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was the show well received ?
Are there any other qualities the audience enjoys ?
Where did Patsy Mink work after the law school library ?
why did Tallulah Bankhead leave broadway ?
What ended up hapening to Joshua Chamberlain men
who whote that
Where did William Styron grow up ?
What was Donnie Iris and the Cruisers ' best selling album ?
What is the major diffrence
Is there anything else that took place in Skunk Anansie early career ?
Who raised the child ?
What profession did Pen hold to cause great wealth ?
What was the background of the Indigenous languages of the Americas ?
Was Epiphany successful ?
Who else played at the Camden Rocks festival ?
What else happened in Laurence Olivier early life ?
What else did you find interesting about this ?
what happened after Harold Shipman death ?
How did Kitty Pryde get her powers
' ' ' who was khan
what kind of music did Cancer Bats play ?
Who did Bear Bryant leave behind when he passed away ?
What made Matthew Paris work so distinctive ?
Did Joe Raposo play any certain character on the Electric Company ?
How many years did Peter Shilton play ?
What accomplishments did Ray Allen achieve with the SuperSonics ?
How was Aerosmith formed ?
Where did Carl Wilson die ?
Was this the most popular recording ?
What was the reason for the break ?
Where did David McCullough grow up as a youth ?
did Cancer Bats work with other bands ?
What else did Forest Evashevski do while he was there ?
Did Muhammad Ali break any other records
Did Donnie Iris get into another band after ?
Did Terry Gilliam do any teaching ?
What comics did Patricia Highsmith write for Western Comics ?
What else did Riggle do ?
Did Raitt receive any more Grammy 's ?
Where did Gregg Allman tour ?
Was there any problems
What was Ozzie Smith batting average ?
How well did the comic sell ?
What made Kareem Abdul - Jabbar convert ?
Did Skunk Anansie receive any support from others in the industry ?
did Andrew Sullivan have any siblings ?
What was the scholarship for ?
Did this affect William Henry Dietz ability to stay in the Oklahoma Chilocco Indian Agricultural School ?
What was Prince Bernhard 's initial response to Nazi Germany ?
Who wrote the songs ?
Did Brian Wilson work with anyone else ?
Did Pankaj Advani win any others ?
What else can you tell me about Mies during this time period ?
Did Cary Grant have any other honors
What do others say about Courtney Love style ?
who influenced Benjamin Lee Whorf into this belief
What teams did Weeb Ewbank coach for ?
who was one of the 1st people Van Morrison looked up to
what was the cinderella tour ?
Did A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada do anything else with Bhaktisiddhanta ?
did Ken Norton win any awards ?
Did this album win any awards ?
What did this change
Was the book well recieved ?
When did Thomas Eakins career begin ?
Where did Rudolf Steiner grow up ?
is Epstein still with the Cubs ?
Where did Judith Butler graduate from ?
who was Devin Moore ?
What else is interesting about this article ?
When did Georgia arrive in New Mexico ?
what was Shen Kuo youth like ?
Where does Adam Lambert find his style choices ?
what was weberns performance style ?
Did T - Pain have any hit songs ?
Is there anything else unique about Linus Pauling political beliefs ?
Did Terry Bradshaw give back to Terry Bradshaw alma mater ?
Were there any other main characters
Who is a costar Patti LuPone had ?
What happened in 1969 ?
When was the official release of the movie ?
Was Good King Wenceslas used for anything else ?
What legal issues did Willie Nelson face ?
What was the name of the lead singer ?
Did Cross Road Blues do other music ?
What did Jacobs do in NYC ?
Did Rex Harrison star in any other movies ?
What was the medal of honor memorial ?
What else is interesting from Red Schoendienst playing career ?
Did the treatment work ?
How much was the allowance ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Marin Čilić win ?
Did the go on Tour ?
Can you tell me more about why Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music conceived of the album ?
What did Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington say to her back
Did Roger Clemens set any records ?
What was an example of Panda Bear solo work ?
What was Tippi Hedren role in Discovery
what made hammer stand out as an entertainer MC Hammer music career ?
what happened to DeLonge ?
What was the title of Joe Perry first album ?
How did the band Hole form originally ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what else was noticable about the set design ?
Where was Bennett born ?
Did Paris often work alone ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what team was wambach a part of ?
Did The Wallflowers collaborate with any other artists ?
What was the biggest injury Marat Safin received ?
Why did Screeching Weasel change their name ?
How many King Cool albums were sold ?
Did Patsy Mink then work for John Burns or somewhere else ?
By inventing this , what happened to allow Alexander Graham Bell to continue inventing things ?
What was the cause of the outbreak ?
Around what time were these theories created ?
Where was Andrew Johnson born ?
what are aspects of the story that contain Reagan ?
Did Linus Pauling have any other difficulties in his public / political life ?
how did hammer start MC Hammer career ?
What did Simon think of the show ?
What instrument did Blind Lemon Jefferson play ?
Where did Adolf Hitler live during his childhood ?
Did Jeff Tweedy ever figure out the cause ?
what was Fleet Foxes first album
What does the article mean by face character ?
did Jakko Jakszyk recover ?
Did Will Forte left the SNL ?
Did Mick Fleetwood ever return to the band ?
When was the pledge put in place ?
When did A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada journey start ?
What was Erlandson 's background as a musician ?
Did T - Pain win any awards ?
What else was Ruhollah known for
When did the Menominee first encounter Europeans ?
Did MC Hammer have anyone who helped him in his career ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where did George Foreman defend his title ?
Was Kareem Abdul - Jabbar controversial ?
Were Screeching Weasel any other reasons for changing their name ?
Were any awards won ?
what was Vladimir Kozlov angle ?
Did this film do well with critics ?
Did Cathy Rush win gold ?
Did anyone contend Ashley ?
When did other arrests happen ?
The sparked the reunion of Day26 ?
Who are Kermit the Frog parents ?
How did the investment turn out ?
Can you tell me what year Daniel Barenboim was born ?
Was Billie Holiday the Lead Role in the play ?
did Bruno Latour have help
what did Theo do for the cubs ? ( positively )
Why was Miracle on Ice a problem ?
Did Billie Jean King play doubles during this time period at all ?
what was interesting about act 1 ?
How many times did the team win the World Series ?
Were there any other rewards as well ?
Where were the roadshow engagements ?
What was Bobby Darin childhood like ?
What were some of Joe 's most well known works other than Sesame Street ?
When did the group form ?
What is Adam 's image ?
where else did Queen Rania of Jordan go to ?
Did Martina Hingis career end after this ?
Who else was involved in this Act ?
How many kids did Karlheinz Stockhausen have together ?
What did Lorde do in 2011 ?
What happened with the mob ?
Where did David McCullough go to school ?
what is reason to believe this ?
Did anythig else happen during the rehearsals before the recording ?
How was the album received ?
Did Jane Jacobs do anything else significant in NYC ?
What was Brooks doing ?
How many championships did Dražen Petrović win with Cibona ?
What type of exhibitions were there ?
Did Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington go to college .
What did Alexander Graham Bell invent ?
Where was the Cherokee nation ?
How did Joe Nieuwendyk perform that year ?
did Kit Carson have problems along the way ?
Did Kurt Warner win the superbowl ?
What happened in 2014 ?
What was significant about Phil Lesh childhood ?
Did Lea Salonga ever tour ?
What were Fawlty Towers ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did Skinny Puppy music make any top charts ?
Did Matt Brown say anything else that was critical ?
What did Bachmann originally do for Michele Bachmann career ?
What is " The Hunting Party " ?
Was The Master liked by others ?
What was the relationship between subcomandate and Military site ?
Did Panda Bear release any other albums as a solo artist ?
why did The Verve not rejoin ?
What kind of music did Courtney Love play ?
how did Mary Surratt know booth
who did Goo Goo Dolls tour with ?
Was John Witherspoon Part of politics during the revolutionary war ?
Did the company try to fight the lawsuit ?
Did the Symphony X release it ?
Did Bryan Ferry have any success ?
Did Patti Page have any chart - topping country music hits during this time ?
What other albums did 3 Doors Down have ?
What was the group name ?
What is an interesting fact regarding Neil Simon characters ?
How did Jayan happen ?
What subjects did Florence Nightingale write about ?
did Anton Webern music contain metaphors ?
What is the most important aspect of this article ?
Where was Eazy - E born ?
Any interesting information ?
when was the band formed ?
Was Substance another album ?
Where are the libraries ?
did that work out ?
what happened to Katrina Kaif acting in 2012 ?
Did Ozzie Smith suffer any injuries ?
what did Graeme Obree use the bike for ?
Did Big Brother and the Holding Company release any other albums ?
What else can you tell me about Peter Kenez ?
What is Grant 's most famous movies
Where did Bruce Hornsby grow up ?
What year did " Nemo " release ?
What did Patrick O'Brian publish as Patrick O'Brian ?
Was Josef Mengele him ?
Did Leontyne Price sing anything else for Karajan
when did Eddie Rabbitt stop making music
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Were any performances especially popular ?
Did Travis tour ?
What else was written about johnny storm
Who was the attorney for the family ?
Why was Borlaug criticized ?
Were Bipasha Basu any other well known actors in this movie ?
What team did Arthur Irwin play for in 1886 ?
Did the Kinks go on tour ever ?
Did Jakko Jakszyk play in and movies ?
Was any of Patrick O'Brian work besides Master and Commander turned into a movie ?
When did Chesley Sullenberger get involved with military services ?
Who was the founder of the band Mazzy star ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
how did All About Eve try to undermind her ?
was Mary Surratt accused of helping john wilkes booth
Where is Scooter Libby from ?
What else did Sven Hedin do ?
Were there any hits off this album ?
Did Mia Hamm get to the finals ?
What paintings did Salvador Dalí use melting watches in ?
What was the name of that project
What other abilities ?
What else did Gaelic Ireland consist of
how wwas Bob Newhart style taken by the public ?
Why did Broadmoor Hospital only house so little when the capacity was much more ?
Did Suzanne Lenglen do any coaching ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
who did Tracey Ullman work with ?
what was 3 Doors Down success ?
What other things happened in regards to the libraries ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what did Walter Scott do after school ?
Who blacklisted Joan Leslie ?
What other recordings did I Heard It Through the Grapevine make ?
Was there anything else you found interesting in article
Did Robert Dale Owen hold political office ?
what were peoples take on Andy Dick ?
Can you provide me with some information on the Bishop of Imus ?
Is Anya Jenkins a bad character in the show ?
Was anyone hurt ?
Who created the master ?
Did Reggie Jackson meet the president as an all american
when did the band form
Does Blair say that Chuck Bass 's in love with him too ?
Who did Rex Harrison act with ?
Did Richard Lewontin have any other important research ?
what album was released june 2010
what happened in 1998 ?
Did Tamar Braxton win on dancing with the stars ?
When did Yoko leave Japan ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Screeching Weasel do in his early years ?
Did Jason Kidd set any records that season ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was the braxton family christmas a hit ?
Did Bipasha Basu act in any other movies ?
Did Lea Salonga win any awards ?
Did Peter Shilton make the finals ?
What did Grace Hopper do in this role ?
What was some of The Three Stooges work ?
Where was Andrew Carnegie located ?
Did Jeff Tweedy seek help for these issues ?
Were there any controversies during Ray Allen time with Seattle ?
Did Harry Nilsson go to the theaters ?
What was the fight about ?
did Lee Trevino go every year after that
how did Cliff Stearns control it ?
What was the response from the band ?
what is the setting of the story ?
What was thier first record ?
What does this mean
In what movie or tv role ?
What songs were on the album
Did other backgrounds pick to use the Navajo language or just the United States ?
Did Tori Amos create a DVD ?
Did Chuck Schuldiner early albums get any attention ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what did James May do instead ?
What were the efforts ?
What was maturity ?
Did the hospital and inoculations help ?
what did A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada mean ?
Did 14th Dalai Lama get any awards
what was the album called ?
Was this Tendulkars last year of play ?
How did Pipes answer Richard Pipes critics ?
Was Sean Waltman contreversial ?
Is there anything significant about the band 's history ?
Did Between the Buried and Me go on any other tours ?
What did this cause
Who was Jean - Marie Le Pen security detail due to being associated with Organized crime ?
What was the three stooges
did James May win any awards for this ?
What other interactions did Clarkson have with Simon Cowell ?
When did Jeff Tweedy marry ?
what is Vanilla Ice career based on
Was Ceremony successful ?
What was the relation between Dana and Global warming ?
What are the Northampton demos ?
What can you tell me about Rahul Bose activism ?
Can you tell me more about this ?
What else happened following these mixed reactions ?
Did Friedrich Hölderlin switch careers ?
What statements were made from other members that conflicted with that ?
What is Hedin 's connection to Nazi Germany ?
Did Patrice Lumumba regain power after this ?
When was Bobby Fischer born ?
what year did the song come out ?
how does Queen Rania of Jordan correct it
how did Anton Webern try to engage his audience ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did anyone else have criticism against Jodorowsky ?
who romanticized Anton Webern symphony ?
what criticism surrounded Alejandro Jodorowsky ?
Was Rex Harrison noted for anything else as a film actor ?
How did that movie do ?
did The Buggles have other reasons for leaving ?
Was this last work a success ?
What were these letter include ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Hamid Karzai have any children ?
Did Bleeding Through go on tour during this time ?
What does the egg symbolize ?
what other films was Andy Dick in ?
When was Duncan Hunter first elected ?
Did Teena Marie encourage her music ?
Did Forest Evashevski enjoy his time at U of M ?
When did William Bartram begin to explore the Cherokee nation ?
What was the people 's view about Subcomandante Marcos ?
What else did the movement do ?
What is a typical character for Neil Simon ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
How did Kevin Garnett play ?
were A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada writings famous ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Is there anything else of note in this section ?
Did Adolf Hitler have an hobbies ?
Did Miles Dempsey have to lead his command into battle
How long was Dreamgirls in theaters ?
When did Burlesque stop being popular ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Jacques Cousteau make another film after that ?
did Tracey Ullman ever get divorced ?
What happened in 2002 ?
what did Rania have to do with Global Education ?
What were some of Emily Dickinson early writings ?
In the 1950s what did Leslie choose to do ?
What did Lew Wallace do to earn more wages ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
anything else of interest ?
What shows or movies was Cary Grant in
Was this large contract a common thing ?
why did Stuart Pearce leave ?
What was a song on the album , Woodstock ?
How are Disc jockey treated by their male counterparts ?
What else did you find interesting ?
When did the new name take effect ?
How many floors were the buildings ?
When was the Year of the Spider released
Was there any controversy about this ?
What else did you find interesting about this section ?
What was Paris ' art style described as ?
Did this eccentricities affect Jack White personal life ?
How did the band members meet ?
What was the taxpayer protection pledge ?
What happened in the show ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what political party is Duncan Hunter ?
What happened during Julia Louis - Dreyfus other years with the show ?
What country is that in
Was Seattle Allen 's first team ?
Where was Judith Butler born ?
Why did Burlesque go out of fashion ?
When did Tyson Chandler high school career begin ?
was the tour sold out ?
Did Grace Hopper give speeches ?
did John Heisman have other shifts ?
did John Wayne do any othe rmovies ?
Why was Eric Bischoff associated with The New World Order ?
How were J. R. Jayewardene grades ?
Was Dreamgirls successful when it premiered ?
Was this the only Olympics Marin Čilić took part in ?
Were there other things besides the rape scene that added to criticism against Jodorowsky ?
did Kit Carson have any other jobs ?
did Jack Thompson win the alabama case ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
How was Seabiscuit return to racing ?
Is The Master a very intelligent person ?
What else happen was interesting about Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington
did Bob Newhart have any influences
What happen in 1929
Was that all of Slipknot projects ?
What Rahul Bose a activist ?
Did Ozzie Smith play in the World Series ?
when did Mike Gravel move to alaska
where did Walter Hagen go to school ?
Did Gerry have anything to do with that incident ?
When did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela meet ?
When did Julia Louis - Dreyfus go to SNL ?
Did some of the actors become famous ?
What was Tom Coburn medical career ?
What did Andrew Johnson parents do ?
Did Billie Jean King win or lose the match against Tanya ?
Who played for the team ?
Why are the amplifiers important ?
What singles were released from this album ?
What is meant by " final activities " ?
who were Andrew Johnson parents ?
Who won the fight ?
Did the first gig at Splash club go well ?
What was involved in the redevelopment ?
How was Ludwig Mies van der Rohe involved with the house ?
What did Saosin do after the tour ?
what are some interesting aspects about this article ?
How many members were on the demo album ?
What was Umar too young to do ?
What did Marin Čilić place ?
Was Namdev able to make a positive change ?
who did Sheryl Crow have an affair with ?
What was Jakko Jakszyk first solo ?
was this successful ?
Was Hogan originally part of the nWO ?
What team did Reggie Jackson play for
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What can you tell me about Scott Walker education ?
How was Ahmed Wali related to Hamid ?
was there a lawsuit from the authors ?
Do Odawa identify with any one ?
Tell me more about Benjamin Lee Whorf ideas
Who went with Thor Heyerdahl ?
When were Hamid Karzai married ?
what award did Tracey Ullman recieve ?
What happened during the hearing ?
What else was going on in Jeff Tweedy personal life ?
how did others view Anton Webern boulezs complete ?
Can you elaborate on this ?
what did Terry Bradshaw do after football ?
Was Ali Khamenei ever arrested ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Who is " Brooks & Dunn " ?
Is Rahul Bose involved in any other charities or foundations ?
Were Brooks & Dunn on tour ?
who did James May work with ?
what was the language
What did Mike Gravel do in winter
Did any songs reach no 1 ?
did Randy Moss go to jail ?
What was notable about Julia Louis - Dreyfus time on SNL ?
What happened in 1981 ?
What was the film going to be about ?
Why did Jane Jacobs move to New York City ?
What about the South ?
When did Gramm leave ?
Are there any other cast members or characters ?
Where were the exhibitions held ?
Were any hits released on Exai ?
Where did Earl and Wallis live during this time ?
what was the biggest event of Shen Kuo youth ?
What else was The Three Stooges known for
Did Scream Bloody Gore sell well ?
why two versions ?
Did Audra McDonald do anything else ?
Why did William do this ?
Who were Olivier 's parents ?
Who wrote the songs ?
What did Stephen Sondheim do together at that time ?
What can you tell me about Concentration at Corinth ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what does Vanilla Ice now do with his time
Did Green leaving cause issues with other members ?
Is there anything else of note in the article ?
What else can you tell me about Wu Tang ?
How many games did Sachin Tendulkar win during this time ?
How did jack benny influence Bob Newhart ?
did Florence Nightingale family ever scorn her works
When was Karlheinz Stockhausen married to Doris Andreae ?
Where did Scooter Libby go to school ?
Did Blood , Sweat & Tears become popular ?
Did Steve Yzerman play for any one else before the wings ?
did that sell well ?
What did Carl Wilson achieve before death ?
anything else ?
Was there anything else significant about the pledge ?
Was Saosin first album popular ?
How long did John Safran last ?
What is England calls ?
Where was the film Shakespeare inLove produced ?
Where did William Henry Dietz go to school ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What is Homicide Life on the street ?
who else was featured in the album ?
Who did Jamie Foxx co - star with in The Kingdom ?
Any more collaborations ?
Did Myles Kennedy release any singles from that album ?
How did Hecht do as a journalist ?
What did Myles Kennedy do after Alter Bridge ?
What struggles did Ai Kago have ?
What was the name of the EP released in 2004 ?
What year did Bear Bryant retire ?
Did Henrik Larsson win any awards before leaving Barcelona ?
What happened after the knockdown ?
Did Cathy Rush ever coach the Pan American team again ?
was the film popular
What was the name of the label ?
Did Weeb Ewbank die ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When did all of this happen ?
What are other aspects of Ablett 's legacy ?
Was Bob Newhart influenced by anything ?
Why was this ?
What happened after that ?
did The Verve have any other music ?
How did Menominee interact with the Menominee ?
what was Stuart Pearce biggest attribute ?
When was Back to Godhead written ?
Was this popular ?
Did clarkson sell well in the UK ?
What happened after 1989 ?
What else was unique about burlesque during this time ?
How many points per game did Dražen Petrović score that year ?
Relate one interesting incident during production ?
What is Calling All Lovers ?
How does Bill Robinson relate to Shirley Temple ?
what did Patrick Dempsey do in the 90s ?
Did Eagles make another album ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what was Parliament - Funkadelic biggest accomplishment ?
Where did Odawa come from ?
So Roger Clemens never got voted into the hall of fame ?
Why did n't Geffen approve
Where did the exchange happen at
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When was The Great Misdirect released ?
Did Ben Stein write any other books ?
What were William H. Seward views about the war ?
What is Town Hall Tonight ?
Was Grigory Potemkin smart ?
was Kurt Angle involved in any other scandals ?
Did any of Burt Bacharach later songs hit the charts ?
Do Panda Bear do any other performances ?
Did Rahul Bose ever do any TV in his early career ?
did Vaslav Nijinsky spend a lot of time with the royal family ?
What was the tax case involving ?
What was Corea 's original music style ?
Did Andy Griffith write any song ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did the album do well ?
In what year was Kitty Pryde created
Were any of the demos with guest vocalist released ?
How old was Greg LeMond when he made the U.S. Team ?
who did Queen Rania of Jordan co - found it with ?
When did Steven Seagal begin martial arts ?
Did Blake Lewis every tour any other time ?
when did Yuvraj Singh play in the IPL ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Why do Mandaeism believe that ?
What did Grace Hopper do after she retired ?
Were there a lot of controversy going on at this time ?
what was Eddie Rabbitt biggest hit
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
how much was the watch worth ?
dhow successful was the album ?
Can you tell me about the production of the video ?
Were there more changes in the cast and crew ?
How did the band get started ?
During Vicente Fernández breakthrough did he ever go on tour ?
What happened as a result ?
did the album make Parliament - Funkadelic big ?
What did the family do with the money ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Which other names were mentioned in Dana Rohrabacher movement against global warming ?
Where else did Billie Jean King play tennis during that time ?
How did the boy band evolve over the years ?
What happened then ?
Did Andrew Johnson always live in Raleigh ?
What is the Islands band ?
DId hammer have any issues with other artists ?
How old was Eakins ?
Where was Iris born ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela do next ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Who took over after Carl Wilson death ?
Is there anything else interesting in the article ?
What happened in 1997 ?
what was special about Jan van Eyck ?
Did Donnie Iris go to school ?
Where did Jack White go after leaving Detroit ?
What other notable events happened while Miles Dempsey was in the far east ?
what happened in 1995 ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When did Joe Perry get their first major gig ?
When was the album released ?
Who founded the band ?
did Shen Kuo marry ?
did that single chart anywhere ?
What is this about
what kind of honors does walt disney have ?
when did Walt Disney recieve those ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What happened in 2014 ?
Was there something Sun Ra excelled at more than another ?
were people supportive of this ?
did Andrew Sullivan have any children ?
Did Colin 's other son have a particular style ?
Did Joe Nieuwendyk team win ?
How else does James May put the toys to the test ?
When did Terry Bradshaw retire from football ?
Did Edward Canby receive any medals in his career ?
What did Donna Haraway say in her writings ?
Who did Marin Čilić compete against in the Olympics other than Juan ?
How many children did Karlheinz Stockhausen have together ?
What was Hugh Trevor - Roper interest or views of the English Civil War ?
When did Maurice Malpas join Dundee United ?
what book did Bruno Latour write
What are some other childhood memories ?
What were some singles released from that album ?
how did the disbandment start ?
Why were the French there ?
Was this collaboration a success ?
What else did Heyerdahl do ?
How many are there in the tribe ?
At what age did Patrick O'Brian published his work ?
When was Colors released ?
Did Jessica Alba have other professional lessons ?
What did Sean Waltman do there ?
What was the name of Rahul Bose first play ?
How did Josef Mengele go about doing that ?
Are Brooks & Dunn currently working on anything ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what is special about the tune ?
What type of music did Marmalade play ?
What does the public think about Neil Simon characters ?
Was David Hume mother influential to Hume ?
What were some shows Neil Simon characters were in ?
Was the title or anything else changed ?
How did Kermit the Frog get into movies ?
what were some aspects of Andrew Sullivan personal life ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When did Ken Norton fight Ali again ?
Did Leontyne Price sing anywhere else
What was Pink Floyd – The Wall role going to be ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did Georgette Heyer achieve success at an early age ?
Why did Kelly Hayes quit the band
Was Harry Price popular ?
What was the May Festival about
What happened to Lew Wallace after she died ?
When did Terry stop playing football ?
Anything else about Steve Yzerman early years ?
Is there anything unique about the recording of this album ?
Why did Bipasha Basu receive unfavorable reviews ?
Did Sam Harris have any siblings ?
Did this help Bipasha Basu become well known ?
did this album cause any controversies ?
What other shows Will Forte made in the SNL ?
What did Cathy Rush do after that ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When was Epiphany released ?
How long was Bachmann a research assistant ?
Did Portugal . The Man perform at Woodstock ?
What was the reaction of Golde ?
Most famous person Teena Marie worked with ?
Did Cary Grant win any awards
what is the most important fact in this article ?
What was Dana Rohrabacher role in the movement ?
What was Subcomandante Marcos crime ?
Did the spice girls go on to be successful regarding Spice Girls girl power ?
where was Walter Hagen born ?
who else was in Chikni Chameli ?
how long did Tracey Ullman act ?
who wanted the shooting irons
Did Trey enjoy making this album ?
What was the scandal about ?
Were there other elements of Colin Cowdrey fathers style mentioned ?
What was there first album ?
Can you tell me about the home media side of the birth of a nation ?
How long did Pankaj Advani play Snooker ?
What type of injury did Seabiscuit have ?
what is a notable win for Duncan Hunter ?
Did The Little Mermaid win any awards ?
Is there anything else important about the references in popular culture ?
any notable losses ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did John Wayne do any TV ?
What other interesting facts are in the article ?
does Duncan Hunter have any military background ?
What did Hamid Karzai wife do ?
Who are some other cast members ?
What did Ferry do after this ?
Were Jeff Tweedy on a tour with Neil young ?
Where did Kurt Gödel go to school ?
Was this the only expedition to Easter Island ?
When was this released ?
What kind of powers did Pinhead have ?
What else can you tell me about the Farnsworth property ?
What prompted the return to texas ?
What else happened from 2003 - 2013 ?
What songs were on this album ?
What are some of these abilities ?
What year was this
Were Tori Amos debuted by Billboard ?
Did Nitty Gritty Dirt Band release any other albums during this time ?
Did Cary Grant direct any movies ?
What kind of realities did Pinhead warp onto himself ?
who is the actress Tony Parker dated ?
Did Bobby Darin go to college ?
What was the first thing Sam Cooke wrote
What other awards did Audra McDonald receive ?
did Gus Van Sant not like his ideas ?
what else did Billie Holiday do early in her career ?
Did The Cult release any singles from that album ?
What does the elephant symbolize ?
Who atacked Joshua Chamberlain men
Did T - Pain have any other hit songs ?
What happens after Blair and Chuck kiss ?
Who are Michael Bennett parents ?
Did T - Pain work with any other artists ?
what was Michael Bennett role in the plays ?
Did Kevin Garnett have other successes on the team ?
Did Slayer have any other albums ?
any interesting facts about this disbandment ?
What other awards did Beccy Cole win ?
what were some of New Order songs ?
What year was Portugal . The Man most recent song released ?
Where did David McCullough parents come from ?
Did Irving Thalberg stay on the East Coast for the rest of his career ?
What were William H. Seward views on diplomacy ?
did John Heisman win any awards ?
Was Norton injured during either fight ?
What interesting facts can you tell me about the Ceremony Album
Who is Cheiron ?
Why did the family sue Royal Dutch Shell ?
What was one of the songs ?
What happened to the prisoners ?
Did Rahul Bose happen to create the gender warrior ?
Did Rahul Bose assist in any other efforts ?
What were some of the accounts ?
What other sports did Juan González play ?
Tell me something interesting about the fictional character biography
anything else about the song ?
How did Patsy Mink meet her husband ?
did the have any hits ?
Did anyone accompany Richard Francis Burton to Mecca ?
What else interesting can you tell me ?
Where was Lesh born ?
Does the article explain why Patti Page took a hiatus ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When did Bill W. start struggling with alcoholism ?
what was Steve Yzerman stats ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what did Harold Shipman do leading up to his death ?
Who is Ali Khamenei ?
Did Andrew Johnson have a job during this time ?
Did Kit Carson enjoy exploring ?
What political positions made Linus Pauling unpopular ?
Did Myles Kennedy ever release any singles ?
How long did Georgia O'Keeffe stay in New Mexico ?
What happened to Nina in 1974 ?
What year was Andy Griffith born ?
What was the biggest controversy surrounding Jodorowsky ?
What happened in 1980 ?
What was the lawsuit about ?
Where did Jessica Alba take the acting lessons ?
What was the reaction to Jayan death ?
When did Karlheinz Stockhausen marry Mary Bauermeister ?
Were the actors in burlesque silent ?
What show did Michael Bennett begin his career ?
When did Andrew Carnegie library open ?
What is one major chart topping success ?
What designers does Adam Lambert use for his style ?
How long did the play last before ending in 2014 ?
What was the song reader ?
did Bruno Latour have more critics
who was a male singer on the recordings ?
How did Lenglen change the game of tennis ?
Why did Journey fire him ?
Were there any other hit songs ?
Was this band successful ?
Were there any hit songs ?
Has Patti LuPone won any awards ?
What else was The Three Stooges legacy known for
Why was this album important ?
what is Andrew Johnson birth date ?
were there other reasons Tallulah Bankhead did nt get the role ?
where there people who were critical of Vinnie Paz albums ?
Did Slayer work with any other celebrities ?
when was Walter Scott born ?
Was Chuck Schuldiner ever part of any other bands ?
What race came next ?
Did the band release any albums after Day26 reunion ?
Did Trevor release any songs ?
What is another Disney cartoon film that Alan scored the music to ?
What happened in florida ?
What is Indigenous peoples of Mexico level of development ?
What are some interesting aspects about this article
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When was the first boy band ?
Was there anything else you found interesting about the article
What was Max Martin hired for ?
Was Fred Hampton involved with any court cases
When was George Steiner born ?
Is there anything else interesting ?
What was Foreigner first solo album ?
Was Hodel a soldier ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What projects did Slipknot work on ?
How is England calls related to Peter Shilton ?
When did the band take a break ?
What did Matthew Fontaine Maury do after obtaining naval appointment ?
where was georgette born ?
did that do well ?
What team got the best end of the deal ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was Robert Dale Owen involved in any controversies ?
Did David Davis run against anyone ?
Did Teena Marie get the role ?
Did Odawa come from anywhere specific ?
What else should I know about Grigory Potemkin ?
what was that movie called ?
What were the cultures like ?
How old was Rocky Graziano when he first fought ?
How long did Manorialism use it for ?
Was Albert Ayler similar to any other musicians ?
What is Indigenous peoples of Mexico current socio - ecomic status ?
When did burlesque come about ?
What are Van der Graaf Generator doing now ?
What was matthew 's early career like ?
What happened after being driven off from the fight ?
What happened on the santa fe trail ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What is unique about Love 's musical style ?
what did david have to do with sex workers ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Bobby Fischer start out playing chess with his family ?
What was the album called ?
Did Journey release any new albums ?
When did Harry Nilsson go to theaters ?
How was Colin Cowdrey elegance displayed ?
Wow was William Junior Campbell the youngest person on the band ?
When was this injury ?
Was Juan González indluced into the hall of fmae ?
Did Bipasha Basu receive any awards for that movie ?
What was Anya Jenkins a recurring character in ?
what did Vaslav Nijinsky do after that ?
What artwork incorporates elephants ?
What was Grigory Potemkin personality like ?
Did the reporter print this info ?
What race are John Safran referring to ?
When was The Argument released ?
Did Bill Monroe receive any awards ?
Did Larry Holmes win the fight ?
did A - Teens tour anywhere else other than Asia and US ?
How did Paul Bowles shape it ?
Any other interesting aspects >
What else can you tell me about kitty
Did Mary Chapin Carpenter form any groups / bands as a young performer ?
what happened in 2008
Did Frank Zappa play with anybody famous ?
What happened in 1998 ?
Any notable or especially interesting performances ?
Did Andrew Carnegie donate any of his money ?
Did Matthew Paris influence other artists ?
where did Andrew Sullivan go to school ?
Did Lorde released album in 2010 ?
How did the rest of the band feel about that ?
How does Neil Simon come up with ideas for his characters ?
What else did Evan Lysacek compete at ?
What is universalism ?
Where did Jayan die ?
What are some other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did this cause
Does Kermit the Frog go back home ?
Did Juan González play any other sports ?
How did the law help ?
What is H2O ?
What happened with the film ?
What is the Better Life Foundation ?
When was Pankaj Advani last win ?
Was Portugal . The Man successful ?
who did Eddie Rabbitt sign with
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Vicente Fernández do any soundtracks ?
Did that become popular as well ?
Which country were the Europeans from ?
When did Brooks & Dunn split up ?
What did critics say about Jodorowsky ?
What happened in 1991 ?
Why did Richard Burton go to Mecca ?
When did The Darkness release Record of the Day ?
What kind of artist was Paris ?
Where did Reggie Jackson finally attend
What happened during the low - life ?
What else did William H. Seward do in politics ?
any other successes ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where were J. R. Jayewardene parents ?
Did Sam Cooke release albums
What else was Rahul Bose involved in ?
When did Wilson die ?
How did Kermit the Frog meet the other Muppets ?
What happened with D.O.A. next ?
Where did Rogers Morton go to elementary school ?
what did Joan Leslie continue making appearances in ?
What characteristics did John Cleese share ?
Where was Greg LeMond born ?
what was Jack Thompson request that was denied ?
What changes did King implement in Jazz ?
What else did Grace Hopper do in her post - retirement life ?
What is the first movie Kermit the Frog made ?
What kind of music did Frank Zappa play ?
How did that song do ?
Why did Amos end Tori Amos contract with Epic Records ?
What year was this ?
What inspired Steven Seagal to begin ?
was Gus Van Sant able to make the movie ?
any notable person during the period
Who is namo
What was Cary Grant legacy
interesting facts about Patricia Lake ?
Did Hitler respond back to Bernhard ?
was there anything interesting about the act 1 ?
What happens in Act II
What divides Mandaeism ?
who else was in Oklahoma ! ?
How did Suzanne Lenglen commence Suzanne Lenglen professional career ?
What was the others year
What did Ramzan Kadyrov do after November 2005 ?
Is calling all lovers an album ?
Where did Neil Diamond attend school
What was the subject of the poetry ?
Where these people Thor Heyerdahl encountered ?
what was The Buggles second album called ?
Why did Journey change their musical direction ?
Did Red Schoendienst play other positions ?
What else can you tell me about this article ?
Is the dojo still open ?
what else is skinny puppy known for ?
Did Rocky Graziano fight soon again after that ?
Where did Larry Holmes fight against Cooney take place ?
Did Patrick Dempsey act in any other TV shows ?
Did John Wayne do any other movies ?
is there anything else interesting about Queen Rania of Jordan and Global Education ?
What are other albums by Linkin Park ?
what were james may 's toy stories ?
Did Forest Evashevski have any major wins ?
is there any thing else of significance about The Kinks legacy ?
What were some famous songs from Courtney Love early years ?
Why did Screeching Weasel not ?
Was the album a hit ?
Did Tom Glavine win any awards ?
Why did Harry Price do this ?
did the fulfill Stan Laurel contract ?
What was Frank Church political afiliation ?
Where was Ted DiBiase most successful ?
When did thi happen ?
any other films ?
When was Kermit born ?
Why was Bill Monroe called that ?
Where did Donnie Iris go to school ?
what is nottingham ?
What Ojibwe term ?
was the album successful ?
Is there a movie about Kermit the Frog childhood ?
DId Audra McDonald perform anywhere else/
What did Eugene O'Neill write
What college did Sun Ra go to ?
Did Fred Allen ever receive any criticism ?
Did Dawkins work with any other scientists ?
who were Rudolf Steiner parents ?
Did Weeb Ewbank have any hobbies in retirement ?
Who created the prototypes ?
What happened in 2011 ?
did Bruno Latour have supportors
what else happened ?
What was Matthew Fontaine Maury early life like ?
Where was Salonga born ?
Does Albert Sidney Johnston state how many men he lost ?
did Sheryl Crow have any other albums ?
What was the name of Nina Simone last album ?
how many copies did A - Teens sell worldwide ?
Where was Patricia Lake educated ?
What is an example of Pinhead limitations ?
did Goo Goo Dolls make a music video ?
Did Matthew Paris do a lot of drawings ?
For how long ?
What did the critics think about The Wallflowers albums ?
what was Ken Norton professional career ?
How long did Red Schoendienst play ?
Is this a positive thing ?
Did Joe win any awards ?
Which political party does Dana Rohrabacher belong ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did Faith Hill succeed right away ?
Did Van der Graaf Generator have any regrets about getting back together ?
Were the actors paid well ?
What are some important aspects of Luis Antonio Tagle ?
What did Burt Bacharach do together ?
How well did Trey Songz do on the charts ?
What popular song was released by Lorde in 2009 ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what side projects did Rose Tattoo have ?
What was Cary Grant famous for
when did Eddie Rabbitt make his first hit
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did The Cardigans have other great hits ?
What was one of the places Teena Marie auditioned ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Who did Perchik send for ?
When did Bruce Hornsby first become interested in music ?
Did anyone else rate the film or gave a comment on the film
Are those involved in the new project people who worked with Jayan before ?
what did Epstein do for the Cubs ?
Does Ai Kago say why she was going to commit suicide ?
What is a socio economic fact regarding Indigenous peoples of Mexico health ?
She did this as a child ?
How did Menominee " make thunder " ?
How did Feeder meet Simon ?
what are madrasati schools
Did Patti Page tour ?
Is there anything that 's interesting about Jodorowsky that has n't been discussed yet ?
when did Michael Bennett career begin ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what other findings did Bruno Latour have
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Myles Kennedy win any awards for year of the tiger ?
How was Juan González season ?
Was there anyone else who was an activist with Rahul Bose ?
What else did Walter Payton do ?
Are there any other songs mentioned ?
What shows did Courtney Love play ?
What did Julia say about Julia Louis - Dreyfus time with SNL ?
Why onyl 3 beeatles ?
What other success did Wilson have ?
Did P. G. Wodehouse get any awards
Was the show well received ?
Were there any issues during production ?
What was the name of Joan Leslie last film ?
What else is significant about this title ?
What did Grace Hopper do at Digital 's engineering facilities ?
Does Xander like Anya Jenkins ?
Did Phil Lesh go to college ?
What experiments did James do ?
What else did Bear Bryant talk about ?
What was a pivotal work for Giannina ?
What was Albert 's style ?
What awards if any did Thomas Eakins win ?
was Goo Goo Dolls well received by fans ?
Who produces Beck albums ?
Then what happened ?
did Andy Dick ever have any problems with films ?
Did Alan create any songs for those films that became popular ?
was Billy Joel successful ?
Did A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada have a following ?
How did Thomas A. Hendricks vote on key issues ?
what else did Billie Holiday do ?
When did Borlaug state this ?
Were The Darkness ever offered a recording deal ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Rahul Bose go to any other film festivals ?
What was the score at Wimbledon ?
Did Megawati become chair if PDI ?
why did Janis Joplin need more attention than them
what else did Dorothy Day write ?
What happened after the relocated ?
did the songs win any awards ?
What other opponents did Muhammad Ali have
What was the significance of Prince Bernhard being involved with Nazi Germany ?
What is Tzeitel 's reaction ?
was The Verve successful ?
When did Lew Wallace join the military ?
How were Scott Walker evaluated ?
Was Gypsy popular
What were Pinhead 's limitations ?
To what degree was Benjamin Lee Whorf influence on language of thought
Has anybody broken that record since Allen ?
What year did this get released ?
In what show was that ?
Any awards or high on the billaboard charts ?
What was act 1 about ?
Were there other conflicts that led to the breakup ?
How did Will Forte began his career in Saturday Nigh Live ?
What is Karzai 's tribal lineage ?
Why did Sun Ra give them the sense of pride ?
did Patrick Dempsey win any awards ?
What High School did Lorde graduated from ?
Did anything else happen when Ruhollah Khomeini returned to Iran
What did Sean Waltman do next ?
What was the most intriguing think you read about Joe ?
What countries did Gabriel Batistuta reside in ?
Were there other personnel changes ?
Was is considered to be a success ?
Was Letterman really popular
Was low life an album ?
Was this album a successful one ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
which match did Kurt Angle win ?
Did Teena Marie win any awards or special recognition ?
Is there anything else interesting ?
Who commissioned Pappy Boyington ?
What is the house used for today ?
profiled Ken Norton as what ?
What is a three - way amp switcher ?
Did Julian Assange get in trouble for this ?
When did the famous swap happened ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did the Oak Ridge Boys make any records at this time ?
Did Jane Jacobs go to school ?
What did Frank Moss do ?
Did Adolf Hitler attend highschool ?
Did A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada write anything else ?
What happened after the divorce ?
Exactly what is meant by the Spice Girls Girl power ?
How does James May take the toy to its limits , does he play with them ?
Does Tony Parker get along with his parents ?
What did Ballmer do with Microsoft ?
did any of Billie Holiday chart ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Why did Pink Floyd – The Wall not make a film ?
WHat did Adam Lambert wear ?
Did Elbridge Gerry take down the hospital ?
who else did skinny puppy influence ?
What led Andrew Carnegie to do this work ?
how the imperial family help Vaslav Nijinsky career ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
why did Screeching Weasel want to leave ?
Did Joey do solo work after ?
Why were n't MC Hammer made public ?
What time span are we talking about ?
What happened after the Chrisian worship incident ?
Did Stephen F. Austin ever practice law ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was that album well received ?
Was Matthew Paris artwork very refined ?
What was the industry impact ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What first happened in 2001 to Yes ?
did this album make any top charts ?
were Kim Deal successful ?
When did Blind Lemon Jefferson start performing ?
Who did 3 Doors Down help ?
What style of music was that ?
anything else about this time period I should know about ?
What did others have to say about Grigory Potemkin personality ?
Did Julian do anything else interesting ?
Who passed the pledge ?
was Ratt an album or a single ?
When did Fugazi tour for these albums ?
When was the Premiere of Dreamgirls ?
How many mutants conformed Kitty Pryde team
Where did Tom Coburn go to high school ?
Is this an album or a song ?
Did Blake Lewis do any music ?
When did Harold Shipman die ?
What else interesting happened to William Bartram on his travels ?
What else was P. G. Wodehouse known for ?
What work did Alan do with Disney ?
what is marriage - a - la - mode ?
Did Giannina Braschi have any other pivotal works ?
Did Toussaint have other artists Allen Toussaint played music with ?
Anythign else interesing ?
What were Kurt Angle job responsibilities ?
What was the biography about ?
What else is significant about this ?
What teams did Roger Clemens play for ?
What changed
Did Andrew Johnson have any siblings ?
When was brotherhood ?
What was Bipasha Basu debut ?
When did Donnie Iris get into music ?
What are some of the factors of the success of The Dubliners ?
What year did T - Pain win the award ?
Was becoming the Bishop of Imus a positive experience for Luis Antonio Tagle ?
Was the film ever released ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Umar listen and leave ?
What happened to these men
How old was Salvador Dalí older brother when he died ?
how did Harold Shipman die ?
Did McMahon release any statements about Ed McMahon time on The Tonight Show ?
What did Bill Robinson perform in ?
Where there any other notable songs ?
What religion was Kareem Abdul - Jabbar raised with ?
Are the comic books adaptations of the Mr. Ripley books ?
How well received were Alexandru Macedonski works ?
What did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela do to fight Apartheid ?
was Lea Salonga successful ?
What else did Hugh Trevor - Roper think of the war ?
Did Ozzie Smith win any awards during this time ?
Did Patricia Highsmith win any awards for the comic ?
Did Talking Heads Talking Heads win any awards ?
What did The Waterboys do
Did Juan González marry and have children ?
Did Tom Coburn go to college ?
What happened next
Who was Andy Griffith mother ?
Did Dražen Petrović win any more championships ?
What else happens during these segments ?
Was Salvador a symbol ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what happened then ?
What was Portrait of the Goddess ?
did Van Morrison work with anyone
Did Teena Marie do any other acting ?
What year was the song " My Girl " released ?
did Roger Clemens ever make the all star team ?
Who are some women DJs ?
Did Seabiscuit have more injuries ?
Was Dreamgirls successful on home video ?
What did William Bartram find there ?
Where did Judith Butler go to school ?
Where did William Dampier set sail from ?
What is a single on this album ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
How well did the national team do while Divac played on Vlade Divac ?
Did Fernandez have a label ?
Does Trey do any acting ?
Who did Martina Hingis lose against ?
Were there any consequences for Linus Pauling ?
any notable person in the article
any hot singles off of this album
Did Reggie Jackson win any awards while in college
Did Ara Parseghian win any awards for the title ?
What were other major symbols in Salvador Dalí artwork ?
Did Pankaj Advani win a Snooker tournament ?
Where did Stephen F. Austin go to school after that ?
what else went wrong in Janis Joplin childhood
was Anton Webern a composer and a conductor ?
Did Larsson play for Barcelona ?
When did that begin ?
Did Patrick O'Brian write anything besides prose fiction ?
What was Cathy Rush involvement with the USA basketball pan american team ?
What language do the Turkana speak ?
What was The Smashing Pumpkins first album ?
Does anyone question Namdev teachings ?
What album first featured Corea 's new style ?
Did Harry Nilsson release anything else ?
what was the next step after the signing ?
Where did The Wallflowers go on tour ?
Was Mia Hamm the best player on the team ?
Anything else stood out for Eugene
What team was Arthur Irwin on when he was a player - manager ?
Were there any other members projects ?
Where was the premiere ?
Was the mosque ever built ?
Were there any other influences ?
When was the album released ?
Tell me something noteworthy about George Foreman second comeback ?
What were the names of the children ?
Was this the only interactions Bill Robinson had ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What were results of the war ?
who were Walter Scott parents ?
what year did this get released
Did the band members ever change ?
Who were the first people selected for the veterans committee
did Oklahoma ! have any problem with production ?
Who criticized Richard Pipes ' approach ?
What else did you find interesting about this section ?
Does Adam Lambert showcase his style anywhere ?
what were the sales like ?
is there anything interesting about Walt Disney honors ?
What is the name of Karlheinz Stockhausen 's wife ?
Did Lew Wallace finish public school ?
What else is interesting about Ballmer ?
Did Maurice Malpas coach ?
Has Rahul Bose won any awards ?
Did Lorde do anything else between 2009 -20011 ?
What else did you find interesting ?
What type of work was Richard involved in ?
Was this album successful ?
Did Carl Jung carve anything else ?
What was the movie about ?
When did Fred Hampton die ?
What other matches during this time frame ?
Who is Fiddler on the Roof ?
In what year did this happen ?
did Eddie Rabbitt have a band
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Richard Hell have any siblings ?
Was Anya Jenkins a friend of Buffy ?
What did Prince Bernhard of Lippe - Biesterfeld do while in the " Reiter - SS ? "
Where were Rose Tattoo touring ?
Did this work for Vladimir Kozlov ?
Did Namdev have a large following ?
What was the new style Corea switched to during the early 1970s ?
Did Cold win award
when was Andrew Sullivan born ?
what was Tracey Ullman top film ?
What did Peter Shilton play ?
for what work Walt Disney was inducted for those two things ?
What did Thomas A. Hendricks oppose ?
What were The Oak Ridge Boys doing in 1962 ?
Did William Styron family own slaves ?
Who had Golde been with for 25 years ?
What else did Ben Hecht do as a journalist ?
Where did Patrice Lumumba flee to ?
Did Kareem Abdul - Jabbar family agree with the name change ?
Did Will Forte have any disguised name in the show ?
Does Ai Kago say what happened after the cut wrists ?
Did George Steiner have any siblings ?
who were the members of the band ?
Did John Cleese win any other awards ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Big Brother and the Holding Company tour ?
What did Ted DiBiase receive ?
Was the EP well received ?
Did Judith Butler have any siblings ?
When did Patrick Dempsey start grays anatomy
What was the most common mixed race ?
what is modern day parliament ?
how was that received by others ?
Was type of restorations occurred ?
Did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela ever recover from her addiction ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela say ?
how was that received ?
what was the major gain from these early years
What was Benjamin Lee Whorf influence
Was Ben Hecht column successful ?
Who won when Divac played on the national team ?
When did Julia Louis - Dreyfus get another big break in her career ?
Was Ben a writer ?
Did Andrew Carnegie give any more money for libraries ?
What was the name of the movie ?
what was John Heisman legacy ?
Did the Menominee encounter any other specific Europeans ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was Alexander Graham Bell for ?
how much was Vaslav Nijinsky salary ?
Most interesting about the epic era ?
How many persons did George Foreman fight [ Remember we can do more than 8 questions Ok ] ?
Anything else interesting ?
When did Manorialism first appear ?
What kind of health problems did Tamar Braxton have ?
what were the similarities
How did Hole get together ?
Who has Kohli been compared to ?
Any other teams ?
What was Tom Wolfe first non - fiction book
What did Lumumba do about this ?
Did The Kinks win any awards ?
Where was George Steiner born ?
was van morrison Van Morrison real name
How did Eric Bischoff go about doing this ?
Who was Pen married to ?
What was Powers ?
Where was Kermit born ?
How did the team do ?
What other songs were on the album ?
What was Y. A. Tittle style ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did King Crimson have any success ?
what is the first film Stan Laurel made ?
who was the next to do this
WHo else did George Foreman fight ?
Did Grace Hopper do work with young people after retirement ?
When was Sam Harris born ?
How was Harry Price a fraud ?
So the band never got back together ?
Did anything happen while Edward Canby was there ?
How did people percieve Harry Price ?
did Florence Nightingale ever receive threats to shut her down
When was Slipknot third hiatus ?
How did one get into a special screening ?
Did Friedrich Hölderlin continue at the monastery or move on to something else ?
did Good King Wenceslas work with anyone else ?
Did Ramzan Kadyrov do anything significant during his time as Deputy Prime Minister ?
How did Wallis and Earl meet ?
Why did Wimpy Roy leave ?
Did Ben Stein win any awards ?
When was Michael Bennett born ?
Did John Cage have unusual rhythmic structure ?
What literature did Florence Nightingale write ?
What did that mean
Do Jayan have any indication why the resurgance happened when it did ?
What was notable about Richard Pipes approach ?
When did Parseghian win Ara Parseghian first national title ?
What is primatology ?
Did Patsy Mink do anything interesting as a legislator ?
Were there any specific shows Bullet for My Valentine did for this tour ?
Where did Bruce Hornsby learn how to play instruments ?
Was Donnie Iris an only child ?
what happened in 1973 ?
Did this top the charts ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
How did Donnie Iris first band Tri - Vets do ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Who was Jack White accused of assaulting ?
Did James May test any other toys in unique ways ?
Was the movie popular
What was something important from the plot ?
where are Fleet Foxes from
What did Wallace do in 1890 ?
did John Wayne recieve any other awards ?
How does the article end ?
Was there any scandals ?
What did Robert F. Kennedy do for living ?
Who was that by
Did Slayer win any awards for the albums ?
How did Evan Lysacek place in other competitions ?
Who were Mary Chapin Carpenter early influences ?
Were those the only years Roger Clemens won the Cy Young ?
Who in the group had a solo career ?
How large was the fourteenth army
How did cosmology effect the way Mandaeism lived ?
Who were Steve Yzerman parents ?
What did Rahul Bose do to assist in the relief efforts ?
Did The Wallflowers go on tour ?
Why did Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music conceive of this album aside from his interest in the genre during his youth ?
what was the story about ?
Who were Eazy - E parents ?
Is Trey Songz touring with this album ?
What did Stephen F. Austin study at the university ?
Was Mick Fleetwood well received by fans or critics ?
What happened in 1987
what did John Wayne do later in his career ?
Were there other recordings ?
Could you give me some interesting information about the side projects and temporary reformations ?
Was Giannina Braschi influenced by anyone for this work ?
What was Gerry famous for in Elbridge Gerry early career ?
Did Walter Payton have any other moves ?
Who was the casting director ?
How many poems does Alexandru Macedonski include ?
How many people live in the Odawa tribe ?
Did anything else come out of Namdev 's teachings ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what did Queen Rania of Jordan do during those visits
what were Cliff Stearns sickened by ?
How many viewers did David Letterman have
What has Terry Bradshaw done professionally since Terry Bradshaw football career ended ?
How many games were won during this time ?
what did Randy Moss do afterward ?
When was Arthur Irwin born ?
What else was Richard Lewontin the first to do ?
who were Tyson Chandler parents ?
Did Biffy Clyro do concerts ?
How did Bonnie Raitt get Bonnie Raitt commercial breakthrough ?
What other people made recordings of this song ?
Who was Bill W. married to ?
Were these four songs successful ?
Did Jayan receive any awards ?
Did Fred Allen host with any one ?
When did Marilyn Chambers get Marilyn Chambers start in Hollywood ?
did Neil Diamond go to college
Did Hall & Oates have any other success ?
What caused the first breakup ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What can you tell me about the structure of the buildings ?
Did The Wallflowers do well ?
When did Travis become popular ?
How did The Kinks chart ?
what year did Bruno Latour write the book
Did Jacques Cousteau have any influence over the diving equipment designs ?
when was all about eve developed ?
What position did Red Schoendienst play ?
Was Tevye in Act II ?
Where did Salvador Dali grow up ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Gary Ablett Sr . win any titles or championships ?
Did magnification do well on the charts ?
Does Dawkins believe in creationism ?
What are some important aspects ?
how was Stan Laurel involved with 20th Century Fox
How long did Richard Francis Burton stay in Mecca ?
Who was Richard Pipes ?
What other statements was made
Who were the members of the group at the time of Magnification ?
Was Bleeding Through a hit ?
What chaged over generations
When did Chesley Sullenberger operate as Blue Force Mission Commander ?
how did Ratt get the name Ratt ?
Were there any singles from this album ?
How old was Robinson when Bill Robinson and Temple worked together ?
Did Joe Raposo work with any famous people on the show ?
How did the CIA view Pipes ?
what does all men are brothers mean ?
Did Beccy Cole record other albums during this time period ?
how detailed and expressive was Anton Webern music ?
What happened during Apartheid ?
/what happened in new jersey ?
When was Blind Lemon Jefferson born ?
What other wings were in the buildings ?
Was Seagal a black belt ?
Did Yes tour with the Magnification album ?
Did The Smashing Pumpkins release a full - length album with VIrgin after signing ?
What did the critics think of The Cardigans albums ?
What else was significant ?
Who used manorialism ?
tell me about latour laboratory life
Did all the original members return ?
What else has Jessi Colter been working on ?
Did any singles come of Tamar Braxton ?
What made The Jay Leno Show a risk ?
When did Boy band become popular ?
What did Harry Price say or do ?
What is Patrick O'Brian most famous for ?
what did Gaelic Ireland do with the items
What got Eazy - E into rap music ?
Any other films with that theme ?
How long did the band stay together ?
Did anyone find out ?
What was the name of that album ?
Did the band do a full tour for Day26 reunion ?
How long was Carl Jung consciousness gone ?
did Queen Rania of Jordan partner with anyone ?
Where did André Previn play music as a conductor ?
What is the area refered to as
Were Kirby Puckett further successful after this took place ?
How did this controversy affect music sales ?
Did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela get divorced ?
When did Georgia go to New York ?
Was there any band member changes during this time ?
So people did n't like Grigory Potemkin ?
Do any groups rate higher in development ?
What was notable about Y. A. Tittle profile ?
What was The Smashing Pumpkins breakout song ?
How was that album received ?
What was the final vote ?
what year was that ?
When Ali 's career start ?
Did Skunk Anansie release any other albums after this one ?
what was Andy Dick first film ?
What were the comics Patricia Highsmith wrote ?
where did Van der Graaf Generator play their first show upon reuniting ?
Did Jamie Foxx receive any awards between 2007 - 2009 ?
Did Saosin replace anyone else in the band ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Ludwig Mies van der Rohe receive any awards , honors or recognition for the Farnsworth House ?
Did Andy Griffith go to college ?
How did White Lion become " officially over " ?
what else notable occurred during this time ?
What did Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington say to him
What was Chuck Schuldiner first album ?
What happened to Joshua Chamberlain during the battle
Did anyone leave the band during this time period ?
was there any other reasons for traveling the trail ?
what happened during the 2003 season ?
Did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela get involved in any other ways ?
Did William Dampier fight ?
WHy was Shakespeare in Love reworked ?
How was Winnie Madikizela - Mandela involved in politics ?
Where did Patrick O'Brian spend Patrick O'Brian childhood ?
What year did the band form ?
What non - Disney film did Alan work on ?
which dancers were chosen ?
What was Irving Thalberg role at Universal Studios ?
What were some other early boy bands ?
Was that the last recording ?
Who were Emily Dickinson early influences ?
Did Red Schoendienst play for any other teams ?
was the act approved
What songs did The Sound of Music sing ?
What did Irving Thalberg do after becoming Laemmle 's secretary ?
Was Between the Buried and Me successful ?
Did Greg Gutfeld offend any other countries ?
anybody famous in teh video ?
Where did Juan González learn to play baseball ?
What else can you tell me about Symphony X time apart ?
What was Teena Marie first big break ?
Did David Davis lose the elect
why did Cancer Bats call it Cancer Bats ?
What was one of Talking Heads successful albums ?
Did Lea Salonga ever go to college ?
When was that released ?
What is some other things that happened between 1974- 1993 ?
Did Carl Jung do anything else with it ?
Did Eagles have any hit songs ?
Where did Steve Yzerman go to school ?
what else did It reach ?
What were some of Evan Lysacek accomplishments ?
Did T - Pain tour ?
Aside from writing what other job Patrick O'Brian does ?
What did Anya Jenkins do on the show ?
Did Van der Graaf Generator new album do good ?
What artists did Brian Wilson work with ?
Who else was part of this group ?
Did Laurence Olivier have any siblings ?
Who else was in the band ?
what was the band 's composition in The Smashing Pumpkins early years ?
What year did Burt Bacharach collaborate with Adele ?
Did Paul Bowles have any other achievements ?
Did Rosalind Franklin have any hobbies ?
Did Melungeon ever leave Virginia ?
Is Chesley Sullenberger still in the military ?
What was Andy Griffith first job after graduating from college ?
When did John Cleese begin there ?
Did Western Comics give Patricia Highsmith problems when she used the character for her novels ?
How long was William Henry Dietz with Purdue ?
Did Bipasha Basu ever retire from acting ?
What other kind of illusions did Pinhead have ?
Any other interesting information about the album ?
why was Abby Wambach difficult to get through the 2002 season ?
why was this a conspiracy
How did that go ?
Did George Foreman collapse eventually after the knockdowns ?
Did Bruce Hornsby ever play in any other bands ?
How did Patrice Lumumba solve this problem ?
What songs did The Sound of Music sing ?
Did Chuck Schuldiner start out as a solo artist ?
Did Julian Assange ever received formal education ?
What other moves did Evan Lysacek do ?
did Tony Parker have things in common ?
What is the Jerry Fisher era ?
How did Tom Morello learn this method ?
was Georgette Heyer family supportive of her career ?
What did Vladimir Kozlov do next ?
What other details are there about the album ?
Was this attempt successful ?
When was Marion Davies born ?
Did Gabriel Batistuta have a winning record ?
Did John Witherspoon ever join congress or anything political during the war ?
Did the recording go well ?
Why did Ai Kago cut her wrists ?
Did Skunk Anansie win any awards ?
did The Verve go on tour ?
How many albums did Nightwish come out with in 2004 - 2005 ?
Did Bill W. have any kids ?
Was Andy Griffith an only child ?
Was there any scandals ?
Was this a box office hit ?
What else ?
What political impacts did Fred Hampton have ?
what did Gus Van Sant do with the money he saved ?
What are the names of Yoko Ono 's parents ?
Did Symphony X get back together ?
Did Wu - Tang Clan put out an album after forming ?
Where did Teena Marie perform Banana Boat ?
Who else contributed to the bands success ?
What are these various territories ?
Were there any controversies that season ?
Did Kevin Garnett have any other season highlights at this time ?
Is Alejandro Jodorowsky respected by others ?
Was The Hunting Party ranked by any other big names ?
what did Walter Scott do together ?
Why was shadow after The Shadow
what was the response to that statement ?
What were some of the problems that led to Talking Heads breakup ?
Where was Darin born ?
Where did Tom Coburn grow up ?
How was that album received ?
Did this end Edward Canby career ?
was any of Michael Bennett work a success ?
Was Y. A. Tittle play style effective at first or did he have to work at it ?
What was the next recording ?
Why was this done
What high school did Andy Griffith attended ?
By any chance did Vicente Fernández act in any movies ?
How many tracks are on The Hunting Party ?
what was the album ?
Was Robert Dale Owen successful ?
Did Alan Menken win any awards for Aladdin ?
Who plays Nina Tucker ?
What things did Nina Simone do in the 1990 's ?
What films did Marilyn Chambers appear in ?
Any other controversies with Gerry ?
How many issues featured Mr. Ripley ?
DId Teena Marie show an interest in music at an early age ?
Were Nitty Gritty Dirt Band on tour in 1969
What else is a weakness ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What could be be said
did Goo Goo Dolls tour ?
When was this song released ?
What are James May 's Toy stories ?
Where was Teena Marie born ?
Did Spacemen 3 get a record deal from the demo ?
What type of company is Royal Dutch Shell ?
How did people in Linus Pauling personal life react to his beliefs ?
In what ways did David McCullough experience growth ?
what happened in 2005 ?
Did Chuck Bass try to rape anyone else ?
Did Norton win ?
what happened in Alabama ?
Are there more ?
Who stated this ?
what conspiracy was Mary Surratt involved in
How is NIxon associated with the Soviet Union ?
When did Mary Chapin Carpenter start playing music ?
What did William Dampier do there ?
Did Reggie Jackson win any awards
Did Teena Marie go on tour ?
When did Arthur Irwin career end ?
Were all the charges of the case dropped ?
Did Tom Coburn go to medical school ?
Why was J. R. Jayewardene raised by a nanny ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What year was the original production
Was this typically done to music ?
Did Eazy - E record any albums or singles with Ruthless Records ?
Did the audience like Will Forte ?
When did Trey Songz release Inevitable ?
Did Chuck Bass womanizing ways catch up to him ?
How did Richard Hell begin his music career ?
was the album a hit on the charts ?
Did Sam Harris graduate ?
What did Patsy Mink do next ?
what else did Foxx do in 2007 ?
When was Eazy - E born ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What happened during the folk revival ?
Who else is in this club ?
did Faith Hill ever move away from home
Did WeiWei do anything to thank Ai Weiwei supporters ?
What was the first album released ?
What was The Master attitude ?
What are The Waterboys called
Was MC Hammer family supportive of his career and success ?
Why did Perchik have to send for Hodel ?
What was special about cowdrey 's style ?
In what year was the band founded ?
does Fleet Foxes say the names of any of the songs
How did the band form ?
Did Adam make any appearances ?
What was Myles Kennedy first solo album released ?
Was Nina Tucker ever able to return ?
What happened in toronto ?
How much money does Kohli make from endorsements ?
who else worked in the band ?
What happened in 2009 to Beck ?
What were Ray Allen problems with Kobe Bryant ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Sun Ra start out as ?
Did Roger Clemens win any awards ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was the shot heard round the world ?
How did Marat Safin injuries affect him ?
Was Memoirs of a Geisha shown to the public ?
Who were Rogers Morton parents ?
Was the book a success ?
did Patrick Dempsey act in any movies ?
what was Tallulah Bankhead first role back ?
Who did Carl Wilson sing with before dying ?
Did Weeb Ewbank have a family ?
What was the aftermath of this swaps ?
How did Lee Trevino next time at the masters go
What else happen with the economy
Did Salvador Dalí have any siblings ?
Why was Elbridge Gerry so opposed to taxes ?
Who won that war ?
Was Yoko interested in music at a young age ?
Did James May or another human try out the glider ?
When did the Minit and Instant Records become popular ?
When did Forest Evashevski become head coach at Iowa ?
What did the other members work on ?
What happened next with the law ?
what is important about the mountain jews teachings
did Georgette Heyer become a full time writer after the publication of this book ?
What started the development of burlesque ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did Faith Hill quit mcdonalds ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What else did Evan Lysacek do ?
Did Rahul Bose start on stage or in film ?
Did hammer stay in the music industry ?
When does Trey Songz decide to release an album ?
Did Patti Page release any other records on Columbia Records during that time ?
What happened after that ?
What did this cause
Did Karlheinz Stockhausen have any other wives ?
What did Ali say in regards to Norton ?
Why was William Styron childhood difficult ?
What happened with the deposition ?
Did Michael Bennett ever choreograph ?
What did dempsey study ?
Who are Serena and Jenny Humphrey ?
How long was Bear Bryant in the hospital ?
what did Stuart Pearce do after leaving ?
Who is william Hope
Are there any other interesting things mentioned ?
Who did Hey Jude rehearse with ?
How did Prince Bernhard respond to other family members ?
What songs were on the EP ?
Did Wu - Tang Clan mostly all come from New York City area ?
What did the band do next ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Who is Peter Green ?
What was unique about this ?
What did Thomas A. Hendricks do as sentator ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did Pamela cheat on Churchill
What where the classes
How did Thompon feel about this ?
what was Janis Joplin childhood like
Why did Ian Stewart became so famous ?
Where was Kurt Angle a general manager at ?
Were there any other members ?
who else did Cancer Bats add to their band ?
Where did the name Aerosmith come from ?
what was special about hammers career ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
who was a part of the revival ?
When did Wilson begin producing records ?
tell me more about Benjamin Lee Whorf theory
What methods of navigation did Matthew Fontaine Maury use ?
Did Leno replace another talk show ?
When did Tyson Chandler begin playing basketball ?
Did Beccy Cole win any awards / honors ?
What was the next band Jakko Jakszyk would join ?
So what happened to WeiWei after that court decision ?
what other roles did Tallulah Bankhead get ?
Did Jack White have any other eccentricities ?
What time period did this occur ?
What does Wu Tang Clan mean ?
Did Bullet for My Valentine tour in support of Venom ?
Notable people Teena Marie performed with ?
What year was Megawati Sukarnoputri first elected ?
Where did William Dampier go from Kinsale ?
did Bob Newhart preform with anyone else ?
What is a well known character ?
What type of style does Adam have ?
From what cause ?
anything else i should know ?
Why did Linus Pauling sue a magazine for libel ? What did they say about him ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Why did Foreigner leave ?
what was the information ?
Did Patricia Lake marry ?
Did Bill Monroe gain a bigger fanbase ?
What are some important aspects during this time ?
Did John Cage have other early works ?
Did Ai Weiwei fight the decision with any repeals ?
Who did Lake marry ?
What other songs did Max Martin collaborate on ?
Were there other scenes which were changed ?
when was shen born ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
did All About Eve need to be rewritten ?
Did King Crimson record any other albums during that time ?
What year was Lee Trevino at the masters the first time
how many was All About Eve before ?
was Ken Norton married ?
Did Forest Evashevski win any other awards ?
Was there a storyline associated with this feud ?
What were the singles on the demo ?
What happened next ?
Which album is Rebel , Sweetheart ?
what was the anecdote ?
Did WeiWei have any devoted followers during all this ?
What cultures are we talking about ?
What sport does Kohli play ?
When was the album released ?
What is Lady Day ?
did the album win any awards ?
When did MC Hammer begin his music career ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Were Wallis Simpson romantically involved ?
Did Dali have a good relationship with Salvador Dalí parents ?
Name some more of The Three Stooges films
What else did Sun Ra do in his early career ?
What is a detail about this topic that is interesting ?
Did Roger Clemens have any other honors ?
Are there any notable correspondents ?
Did Ablett win any awards ?
What was Robert Dale Owen stance on slavery ?
What did Beccy Cole do in 2003 ?
Did Tori Amos create any vocal songs ?
What else was uniuque about the Jerry Fisher era ?
what did Faith Hill do after being a secretary ?
What was special about Tom Morello technique ?
what does global education mean ?
Did Y. A. Tittle choose that style of play or did it come to him naturally ?
Were there other donations ?
What was Pipes ' advice regarding the USSR ?
who were Andrew Sullivan parents ?
Are there any other cast members ?
did Janis Joplin have any siblings
What was Hell 's early life like ?
What did Phil Lesh major in at the College of San Mateo ?
did Vanilla Ice sign contract with any company
Why did Reggie Jackson chose baseball over football
How did Tendulkar play ?
When did George Foreman retire ?
Did Tyson Chandler have any idols or role models for basketball ?
Did Tyson Chandler play basketball in high school ?
How did Bobby Fischer start playing chess ?
What team was Mia Hamm against ?
Was there a lasting impact due to Bernhard 's attitudes to Nazi Germany ?
What made this film special ?
did anything else inspire the art ?
Who eventually signed Bananarama ?
What came after the Full CIrcle tour ?
What was Joe Perry first hit ?
Did that end up becoming a controversy ?
who did viscount squanderfield marry ?
What band did Anthony Green form after leaving ?
What is something interesting about Ballmer ?
which label company were Cancer Bats using in the early years ?
Did the book sell well
did Patrick Dempsey recieve any awards ?
Did Ben Stein have any best sellers ?
Where was Steve Yzerman born ?
did Abby Wambach make it to the play offs with Hamms return ?
Who were Sam Harris parents ?
How did Donnie Iris get into music ?
Did Juan González work with kids ?
Who did Forest Evashevski play for after that ?
What was a name of one of Thomas Eakins first works ?
What did carleton do during the year
who did Skinny Puppy work with ?
what did Kurt Warner do in post season
What year did the shot around the world happen ?
How did Neil Simon learn to create characters ?
What were the two record labels ?
did Georgette Heyer show interest in writing at an early age ?
When did Weeb retire ?
what years were those
Did Beccy Cole have any highly rated singles ?
What was the record club ?
Who did Marin Čilić compete against ?
Why did Eleanor of Aquitaine do that ?
What did Robert Dale Owen supply the union with ?
what did Mae West do ?
Did Y. A. Tittle coach at all with that talent ?
who did Van Morrison perform with
What did melting watches symbolize ?
Was there media coverage ?
Did Slayer go on tour during this time ?
what did Neil Diamond do after high school
Who are the Gaylords ?
when did the post war started
what was the longer name before Ratt was shortened ?
Where was Zheng He parents from ?
How was David Letterman rating
What was Teen Spirit ?
When did Red Schoendienst start playing in the Majors ?
What did Sean Waltman do next ?
Are there details of the conversation Hitler had with Bernhard ?
What themes did Terry Gilliam use ?
Why was n't Megawati Sukarnoputri elected ?
Which states ?
when was Mary Surratt arrested
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Spacemen 3 gain any awards ?
In what year was the album King Cool released ?
Did Yuvraj Singh listen to that request ?
was Porcupine Tree rereleaesd ?
did Forest Evashevski receive any other offers to coach anywhere else ?
What do the amplifiers do for Carlos Santana ?
did anything interesting happen to Lee Trevino there
what was the critical praise
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Billie Jean King win at Wimbledon ?
Was this a succesful album ?
Who else joined the band
Did this affect William Henry Dietz ability to stay in school ?
What else did P. G. Wodehouse do film wise
What was the other pilot 's name ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When was Harry Wright born ?
did Vanilla Ice win anything in 1985
what Lea Salonga did write about ?
Is Quaristice an album or a song ?
Did Beccy Cole and Tamara collaborate on any other projects ?
when was Janis Joplin born ?
who were Faith Hill parents ?
was Oklahoma ! successful ?
Were The Smashing Pumpkins well received by critics ?
Was there a Odawa tribe in the US ?
Are there any details on the accident ?
What kind of responses came from the Chinese ?
What sort of impact dd Kelly Clarkson have ?
Was Bruce Hornsby from a large family ?
What is the primate vision ?
was Tony Parker dating another woman while married ?
Did Rosalind Franklin start college right after highschool ?
What position did Vlade Divac play on the national team ?
where was Walter Scott born ?
what were the six pictures called ?
when did Van Morrison career take off
Does Neil Simon act as characters ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Kurt Vonnegut go to college
What was McMahons official role ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When did Larry Holmes take place ?
What were other records did the songs or album set ?
Was Tom Glavine time with the Braves successful ?
Who else played on the album ?
how long was Stuart Pearce under this position ?
Did Ruhollah Khomeini do anything else important
What did Ferry do during Bryan Ferry solo years ?
Was there a response to the Table Conversations ?
Did Rahul Bose ever produce or direct anything ?
Did that cause the band to break up ?
Why did Lorde need a vocal coach ?
where did Spacemen 3 record the album ?
Why ?
what were some of the violations ?
Did Chesley Sullenberger advance to any other rankings ?
Was there anything else important about this ?
What did Lorde do in 2009 ?
who did Jessi Colter partner with on the album ?
How did the band get started ?
Were there any singles released from that album ?
what did Stuart Pearce do afterward ?
Was Jessi Colter successful ?
when was faith hill born ?
can you tell me more about uniforms ?
Did Patti Page do any duets during that time ?
Was there anything else interesting in the article ?
Did Rocky Graziano have a trainor ?
Did John Safran make it to television ?
Did Audra McDonald have to audition for the role ?
what song did Patti sing ?
Were these the only roadshow engagements ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When was the house designed and built ?
Did Jane Jacobs not like the city 's grid structure ?
//what was the decisions about
did Mae West write anything else ?
What year did Brooks & Dunn record it ?
Who else was relevant in Churches political life ?
When was Frank Church a sponsor of this Act ?
Was John Cage well received ?
Was Salvador Dalí close with his father ?
Did The Birth of a Nation see a sales increase with the change over ?
How many times did Leontyne Price preform there ?
What was Grigory Potemkin reputation ?
did Rudolf Steiner have any siblings ?
What is the Farnsworth House ?
What year did this movie come out ?
What made Kurt Gödel think his heart had permanent damage ?
Did Eazy - E have any siblings ?
Did Richard Nixon have a welcome party for the President and First Lady
was anyone else involved ?
Did Phil Lesh play violin in any orchestra in highschool ?
What happened to Richard Lewontin next in his career ?
Did Nina Simone perform in other parts of the world ?
What did Bachmann do after Michele Bachmann summer in Israel ?
Did Journey have any hit singles ?
What is the history of Manorialism
What was meant to Melungeon
what was Ratt first release ?
What William Henry Dietz a teacher or elder in the school ?
Was this Tippi Hedren first big role ?
Why was Ben Stein fired from his position ?
Where did A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada live ?
What did Rich do instead of leaving ?
Where was Rudolf Steiner born ?
Did Donnie Iris and the Cruisers ' perform large concerts ?
Who were the two pitchers that were selected ?
what was Eddie Rabbitt biggest accomplishment
how did the post war effect Anton Webern music ?
How did Terry Gilliam films do ?
Who did Fred Allen host with ?
Did burlesque stay true to Burlesque original development or were there changes ?
How was Alan Menken work on The Little Mermaid received ?
When did Tennessee Williams graduate ?
How was Steven Seagal able to keep up with career demands while training ?
Who was Sue ?
what else did Gus Van Sant play a .part in making ?
what happened in 2014 with Katrina Kaif ?
Who did Richard Nixon deal with while they were there ?
What was Donnie Iris and the Cruisers biggest hit song ?
What outdoor themes did Thomas Eakins use ?
How did these accusations affect Goebel ?
What did the pensions say
Where was Kurt Vonnegut born
Where did Andrew Johnson and his brother run away to ?
did Billie Holiday sing in any other clubs ?
How did others in the CIA view Pipes ?
Did Peter Shilton win against East Germany ?
Did Muhammad Ali win this match
What else was Grigory Potemkin like ?
Can you provide some infomation on references in popular culture ?
How did the Canadians feel about Greg Gutfeld apology ?
Is Marion Davies still living ?
How did Jessica Alba begin her career ?
How many games did Ara Parseghian win ?
did Tony Parker get alimony ?
What were the stats of the fight ?
Who was Mick Fleetwood replaced with ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was there any other notable activities Robert Dale Owen was involved in ?
was Anton Webern under direction of anyone ?
Did Steven Seagal have a lot of students ?
where did Pamela Harriman get married
What year did Jean - Marie Le Pen we d ?
Who wrote the novel ?
Was there anything notable about Calling All Lovers ?
Who were the original members of the band ?
Where did Church study most of Frank Church life ?
Is there any other movements Bose was involved in ?
Was Kitty Pryde able to defeat frost
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What happened with this vote ?
Anything else about Edward Canby military career you can share ?
Can you tell me a little about the Conception of the album ?
Did Mirage Comics make any other comics ?
What group disbanded ?
What did Sam Harris do in India and Nepal ?
Why was Marilyn Chambers labeled a porno star ?
why were Vaslav Nijinsky essential ?
Did Nicolet fight the Menominee ?
Who were someof the cast members ?
What was Lew Wallace early life like as a child ?
did Lea Salonga do anything else in 2012 ?
What works was Cary Grant known for
Any other children ?
Why did Donnie Iris split up ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Alfred Russel Wallace accomplish ?
Was Bleeding Through a bill board chart ?
How did Beccy Cole first achieve commercial success ?
When was Gary Ablett Sr . inducted into the Hall of Fame ?
did Kim Deal ever release an ablum
Did Hodel and Perchik get together ?
did Walter Scott go to college ?
And what did this contribution do ?
Who was Patricia Lake ?
where did Lea Salonga tour ?
When did Bobby Darin name change to Bobby Darin ?
What else did you find interesting ?
How long did Phil Lesh stay with the Sixth Army Band ?
When did Frank Zappa disband ?
What else did Frank Church do as a politician ?
was James May attempt successful ?
What is important about this song
Was Jacques Cousteau in the military ?
Was anyone else in Hamid Karzai family involved in politics ?
Where do the Turkana people originate from ?
was the musical popular ?
who was a part of the development ?
How much money did Ray Allen make with the SuperSonics ?
did Gus Van Sant stay with ken ?
how long did Shen Kuo serve ?
What was the shadow
What are some examples of Terry Gilliam fantasy films ?
did Katrina Kaif win any awards for it ?
What did you discover about vaccinations ?
What was the first film that Rex Harrison starred in ?
what is the most important fact in this article ?
Did Pankaj Advani face any challenges ?
What type of ballets ?
What was Bob Newhart style focused on ?
what else can you tell me about the case that was interesting ?
what was one of Jan van Eyck successes ?
is there any interesting fact about the lawsuit ?
Were any other awards won ?
Is there other interesting notes about this work ?
did Screeching Weasel last longer ?
How many points did Martina Hingis get ?
When did Pamela Harriman marry Churchill
What does Neil Simon characters look like ?
Why did the State Department put Leontyne Price on tour
What were some singles on the album ?
Does Rahul Bose have any family in the business ?
What else is significant during this time ?
Did Kasa - Vubu depose Patrice Lumumba ?
when was the disneyland series produced ?
Which season was Dražen Petrović personal best ?
What did Ballmer say during the incident ?
Any sisters ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was happening in Jeff Tweedy personal life ?
What did this add too
Who did Forest Evashevski first play for ?
Did Panda Bear tour as a solo artist ?
where did Edward Canby serve most of his time ?
What year was Portugal . The Man released ?
what happened in 2015 ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
what was the skinny puppy legacy ?
Did Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington have siblings
Does Chuck Bass get a chance to actually seduce her ?
What was the first performance of burlesque ?
any other person apart from robert
the presenter for what ?
What was J. R. Jayewardene highest accomplishment in school ?
did Mae West become popular ?
Which cities did King Crimson tour ?
Is there anything else I should know ?
When was the first film Jacques Cousteau made ?
Anything else I should know ?
Was Tennessee Williams major journalism ?
what important thing happened in the period
Who were Kurt Vonnegut parents
What songs were on the album ?
Did Donnie Iris learn how to play any instruments ?
How is Heyerdahl related to the expedition of Easter Island ?
Where was Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington born at
What is robert known for
Was Pappy Boyington completed ?
what was Andy Dick most known for ?
How was hs career in the IPL ?
Where did Juan González live after he retired ?
What was stated by this
What fate was that ?
What do people think of Adam Lambert style ?
What did Richard Francis Burton do in 1851 ?
Where did Rogers Morton go to college ?
Why did Red Schoendienst stop playing ?
What other controversy surrounded Jodorowsky ?
why did Kit Carson travel there ?
What was the group name before Mazzy Star change it ?
Was Josef Mengele good at this ?
What else did you find interesting ?
Has there been any new releases of Jayan works ?
What is that quote from ?
What effect did Florence Nightingale have on the Women 's movement ?
What awards did Bryant win ?
Was Orlando Jones successful in this show ?
Did Turkana have a significant impact on the wars ?
What happened when Jack White were married ?
Where did Paul Bowles study ?
What did John Safran do after the pilots ?
who did giambi play against that day ?
Was the album successful ?
Did Patrick O'Brian serve in military ?
Did Foreigner have a second solo album ?
When did Marin Čilić win the singles title ?
what is intuition ?
How did the critics react to La Comedia ?
what is the song about ?
were there any notable " workers " David Vitter hired ?
What happened with Vicente Fernandezes Breathrough ?
was the revival successful ?
Are there any other interesting aspects of this article ?
Was King still playing Tennis in 1982 and 1983 ?
How did Feeder meet the other members ?
Who was Bobby Darin father ?
Were the women mad about this ?
did Vanilla Ice has any injury during this time
how well did this single perform ?
what else can you tell me about Epstein and the Cubs ?
Any sisters ?
what college did Randy Moss go to ?
who was the artwork by ?
Is there anything else significant about the correspondent segments ?
Did Sean Waltman win any more championships ?
what 's a movie Tracey Ullman won an award for ?
Who else was in the play with Audra McDonald ?
did paz release an album ?
what else did the tour include ?
Did Sun Ra do any collaborations ?
Did Ted DiBiase wrestle with anyone of note ?
How did Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington die ?
what are some other notable elements in the summary ?
How was Emily Dickinson influenced by this ?
Who went with nixon to the Soviet Union ?
What did Matthew Fontaine Maury achieve ?
What types of things was Linus Pauling criticized for ?
Did John Cleese gain any notable reviews or compliments ?
What was Queen Rania of Jordans cross - cultural dialogue
where did Eagles tour at ?
Did Juan González do anything else in texas ?
Was Irving Thalberg ever promoted during his time with Universal ?
What prompted Nairs comeback
did Abby Wambach ever score any winning goals ?
What did Kobe Bryant do during this war of words ?
How did Suzanne Lenglen illness affect her professional career ?
Where did Bobby Darin go to school ?
What caused McMahon to leave The Tonight Show ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did Steve Yzerman play for anyone other than them ?
What part of the military was Edward Canby in ?
Where was Patsy Mink first job ?
Did Richard Dawkins write a book about creationism ?
What was that about
Where did Adolf Hitler go to school as a child ?
Where did Julia Louis - Dreyfus begin her early career ?
How was Nina Tucker return handled ?
Did The Smashing Pumpkins go on tour ?
What channels on televison ?
Has Jamie Foxx received any awards for movies ?
Did Dana Rohrabacher create any movement that was againt it ?
What did William Henry Dietz do when he left school ?
Was there any sexual assault allegations ?
Did Chris have a unique style ?
Why were there financial problems ?
What else can you tell me about On the Sunday of Life ?
What awards did Giannina Braschi win for her writing ?
Do Linkin Park have any other large albums ?
Is the band still together ?
Did Harry Price do anything to him ?
What were Kurt Gödel interests ?
What else did Bryan Ferry do ?
What are Courtney Love songs about ?
Were these shows popular with the public ?
Did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela stay married at this point ?
What happened after the grammy award was won ?
Is there any other interesting information ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Were Richard Nixon successful with what they were trying to accomplish ?
what was the colorado rockies about
How well did Thor Heyerdahl theory go over ?
Did Steve Ballmer stay at Microsoft ?
What was a highlight of Public Enemy early years ?
Have any plans been made to memorialize Jayan contribution to film ?
What are hagiographies ?
Why are Manorialism apparent
What is Excelsior ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where did Scooter Libby go to college ?
what was the literature
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Was Miles Dempsey then promoted to command ?
Where was Patrick O'Brian born ?
What role did David play ?
What time frame was Cary Grant in the movies ?
Who were Teena Marie parents ?
Why did Menominee refer to them as Malhomines ?
What was Marat Safin first injury ?
How was the band formed ?
Did The Argument win any awards ?
did Goo Goo Dolls partner with anybody ?
What other aspects did you find interesting from this article ?
What was The Kinks top ranked song ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where was Styron born ?
Did that recording go missing ?
Did Jessica Alba do well there ?
Who helped Sam Houston ?
How did Ai Kago know / meet Kazuyuki Ito ?
How did Kareem Abdul - Jabbar get it ?
What are Pinhead weaknesses ?
was A - Teens a hit in other parts of the world ?
who ?
Did Albert Sidney Johnston find success during any of his battles ?
Did this pilot make John Safran to television ?
who were some of Ken Norton wins over ?
Was that the only single
what did Gus Van Sant do with ken ?
What is Forever Malcolm Young ?
What year did Neil Diamond graduate
Does Carlos Santana have any other equipment for the amplifiers ?
Did Bobby Fischer have any illnesses as a child ?
Where was this put in to
When was Zheng He born ?
Did Jane Jacobs graduate ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What did Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington study
what hapened immediate after leaving IDOL ?
Do the Turkana people have any special ceremonies that have been passed down ?
What statements did Slipknot make ?
What did Tennessee Williams study there ?
Where did Bill W. work in business ?
What did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela do to show the world apartheid ?
So there was a fear Eleanor of Aquitaine would be kidnapped ?
Were Skunk Anansie successful in their early career ?
How did the album do ?
What team did Divac play for before Vlade Divac played on the national team ?
So Grigory Potemkin could be nice too ?
did John Heisman set any records ?
Are there any details that one should know about Prince Bernhard of Lippe - Biesterfeld attitudes to Nazi Germany ?
what other things can you tell me about Graeme Obree bike ?
How many years ?
Where did Arthur Irwin attend school ?
what was the sarcastic response ?
When did Powhatan sign a treaty ?
What where the ancetors about
How did the case go ?
Why did the group split up ?
What happened when the contract was over ?
When did Thomas A. Hendricks become Senator ?
did the catholic find humanity in everyone ?
Were there anymore tours ?
What is a highlight regarding Red Letter Days ?
Did Gary Ablett Sr . win any other medals or titles ?
Who created the band ?
What is a highlight of Weeb Ewbank career ?
What was the first riff
Where there any special artists involved ?
Did Julian Assange go to college ?
Who did Ozzie Smith play for in 1985 ?
When did the movie release nationwide ?
Were Ai Weiwei able to pay this ?
Which one won ?
Was Patrick O'Brian successful when he was alive ?
Did McMahon obtain more air time while on the show ?
what happened to the other members of the band ?
Did Vicente Fernández have any albums ?
Did Greg LeMond when any awards when he was young ?
Did Orlando Jones have a lot of fans ?
Did Daniel Barenboim receive any awards ?
Was Uncle Charlie and Nitty Gritty Dirt Band Dog Teddy a hit ?
What else is significant about this national title ?
how did the casting call go ?
Were J. R. Jayewardene other siblings political ?
How long did Blood , Sweat & Tears stay on the charts ?
What was one of The Three Stooges Dvd title
What is the Rebel ?
how did Cliff Stearns threaten the NECC ?
What else did the reform say
how long were Pamela Harriman married for
Did the band break up and if so , when ?
what did Queen Rania of Jordan do when she met with them ?
What happened in November 1862 ?
How long did Vicente Fernández take him to make an album ?
What controversy surrounds Jack White ?
Any other boxers ?
What lead up to Umar death ?
what was Lea Salonga about ?
what were the historical origins of the bretons ?
How did the US do in the World Cup that year ?
Was Julia Louis - Dreyfus cast with any other famous people ?
When did Mia Hamm score her 108th international goal ?
Can you tell me more about David Hume mom ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What does Thor Heyerdahl mean by " short ears " and " long ears " ?
What does Anya Jenkins character do ?
Did Harry Price write about this event ?
did that film do well ?
What is Amplifiers ?
Who did ?
Did Thomas Eakins go to school for art ?
What are some television projects that Orlando Jones have ?
Where did Tennessee Williams go to school ?
What else was important about Albert Ayler music ?
did Lee Trevino have any funny stories from the masters
who taught the people
Was Zheng He close to his family ?
what was the hit single of this album ?
Is Hamid Karzai married ?
Where did the name Burlesque come from ?
Howw did Stephen collaborate with James ?
what other college did Randy Moss go to ?
What film has Patti LuPone been in ?
what movie for Patti LuPone was a big success ?
What happened with Turkana after the liberation of Abyssinia ?
What shows did Blake Lewis appear on ?
Who was the first major boy band group ?
what happened in Eddie Rabbitt early career
was Katrina Kaif a hit ?
When did Foreman make George Foreman second comeback ?
What was most interesting about this article ?
How many hits did Toussaint have in Allen Toussaint career ?
Did Porcupine Tree do well ?
was this book a continuation of the serial story Georgette Heyer wrote for her brother ?
Who was Eugene O'Neill parents ?
Why is that ?
anything else interesting ?
What was the scene about ?
did Janis Joplin have any accomplishments as a kid
What were Bananarama top 10 hits ?
was that successful ?
What is a leading role Patti LuPone had ?
Has Kohli had any confrontations with players ?
What else is significant about this feature ?
what happened in 1999 ?
did Cancer Bats record any albums in their early years ?
What is Jay and the Doctor ?
Was Nightwish second album a success ?
Did others accompany William Bartram ?
What else did Gaelic Ireland use
Did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela start dating ?
What did Lea Salonga parents do ?
Why did Sam Cooke want a new start in his life
What other equipment does Carlos Santana use ?
Did Slayer release any albums ?
Where did Juan González play besides Texas ?
Did Jeff Tweedy survive ?
What else happened with this album ?
Was David a good writer ?
Did Ray Allen break any records during his time with Seattle ?
Did Miles Dempsey release the prisoners since the war was over ?
When was Michele Bachmann born ?
Was Will Forte good in the show ?
Who were Judith Butler parents ?
were there any other musicians Sheryl Crow had appera ?
what did the judge have to say about Jack Thompson request ?
Did Wallis Simpson stay together or did they eventually get divorced ?
Where did Ludwig Mies van der Rohe get his education ?
Is there a reason The Cult called the album Ceremony ?
What was a criticism of an environmentalist ?
Did Bachmann go on to further Michele Bachmann education after High School ?
When did Travis start playing ?
DId Sam Cooke win any awards
What caused the altercation ?
Did McMahon receive a salary on the show ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Victorian in what way ?
When did Winnie Madikizela - Mandela marry ?
How old was Alexander Graham Bell when he made his first invention ?
What was Victorian era burlesque ?
What kinds of stats did Red Schoendienst have ?
Where Powhatan involved in any other wars ?
What was the result of that suit ?
Are there any other competitions mentioned ?
Did Burt Bacharach collaborate with anyone ?
Did Greenland speak a certain language ?
Was there any controversy surrounding Pappy Boyington ?
Did Mia Hamm win the game ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Did anyone else see the film
Did Ted DiBiase get any recognition ?
did the bike contain any special parts
When was oversteps released ?
How long did D.O.A. stay together after reuniting in 1992 ?
Where did Kurt Vonnegut go to school
What is the next Disney film that Alan Menken worked on ?
What kind of leader was Sam Houston ?
Do Jeff Tweedy have kids ?
what debt was Mary Surratt collecting
What record label were The Oak Ridge Boys with in the 1960s ?
Did Maurice Malpas have any notable wins ?
What happened next ?
what is a similarity ?
What other issues were there ?
what happened in 1974 ?
What other albums and songs did Talking Heads release during this time period ?
What recognition did Hall & Oates receive
What are some things Megawati Sukarnoputri did while she was elected as Chair of PDI ?
Is Ali referring to Mohammed Ali ?
What position did Petrovic play ?
Did Assange get married ?
Did Nitty Gritty Dirt Band have any other singles off this album that were hits
Did the band tour ?
What does Chuck do when Chuck Bass gets cold feet ?
When did the band originally form ?
What was the name of the band ?
Did Queen Rania of Jordan create a program
Did Ken Saro - Wiwa win the lawsuit ?
Was Subcomandante Marcos successful ?
Who are the correspondents ?
Were Mary Chapin Carpenter parents musicians ?
What did the treaty say ?
Was Jessica Alba in anything else ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
When was Kurt Gödel born ?
Was Florence Nightingale work considered imorral
Was A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada recognized for anything else ?
Did Marmalade have any other band member changes ?
Was there any other albums with chart topping success ?
What was Daniel Barenboim best known for ?
What was usamas army doing ?
What year did Bryant die ?
What are details about these arrests ?
Did this work well in McMahon 's favor ?
Who was James Pinckney Henderson ?
Any other notable players ?
Who did Gregg Allman tour with ?
Who else did The Wallflowers work with ?
Why was Memoirs of a Geisha not well received ?
Where did Laurence Olivier grow up ?
When was this word adopted ?
What can you tell me about Eazy - E education ?
what happened in 1966 ?
what happened in 1929 ?
Did The Smashing Pumpkins tour during this time ?
what happened in 2012 ?
In what year did the lawsuit occur ?
Did Tom Morello always use this technique ?
When was Screeching Weasel born ?
did Blink-182 produce music with the new line up ?
Did Jakko Jakszyk have any other hits ?
Did Cold make the video
What is Discovery ?
What other teams were part of Ara Parseghian season ?
Who was Frances Dickson to Lorde ?
did Kaki King strictly acoustic tour do well ?
Did Rocky Graziano know immediately that he wanted to get into boxing ?
Did Kermit the Frog leave Mississippi ?
Where any of Yes singles a success ?
How did alcohol impact Bill W. life ?
What other things made Albert Ayler music sound different ?
How did the Menominee react ?
Was William Styron mother around when he was a child ?
Was Vlade Divac on the national team ?
why did Queen Rania of Jordan want to engage in global dialogue to dismantle stereotypes
Did Scooter Libby have siblings ?
Has seen been in any finals ?
What happened in 1977 ?
What did Kidd do with the Phoenix Suns ?
Who else did Watt colaborate with ?
Did John Burns get elected ?
Did the Dalai Lama appeal
What else did Richard Lewontin accomplish ?
What was the name of Rahul Bose first film ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Where did Donnie Iris grow up ?
where did women learn
did Walter Hagen have any siblings ?
did Florence Nightingale personal life ever reflect her works
Was this a stunt Jayan was performing ?
What year is post war year
What studies did Friedrich Hölderlin tutor ?
What mixed reactions did Spice Girls have ?
What other movies did Tippi Hedren do after this
Was Rapid Eye Movement a success ?
How well was this work received ?
Did Chuck Bass succeed after attempting to rape them ?
what did Jack Thompson do about the judge ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What happened after Jeff Tweedy wife recovered ?
anything else interesting ?
Are there any other interesting aspects about this article ?
What was the difference between the takes
were Cliff Stearns able to get them to comply with the regulations ?
was the movie popular ?
were there any problems with development ?
